Buchenwald constructions by
The chronology of the beginnings of Harzungen and Ellrich is murky, as will be seen from the fragmentary testimonies available. Prior to the camp’s opening, many prisoners coming from Buchenwald were taken to Bischofferode to a former farming operation located between the villages of Woffleben and Appenrode. As mentioned above, it was the real headquarters of the Sonderstab Kammler’s Sonderinspektion B, set up in the old main farm building. The prisoners were temporarily installed in the other building of the “Woffleben farm”—so-called because the operation was located on that district’s territory.
THE EVACUATION OF SACHSENHAUSEN. The evacuation of the Sachsenhausen camp, which began on April 21, 1945, was the most important operation in the history of the evacuations, for it involved the entire population of a major camp all leaving together in a single direction on foot with no prospect of reaching any other camp by railway convoy.
In an attempt to ensure the secrecy of this enormous murder operation, the euthanasia action was known only as ‘T4’ after the address of the headquarters of the scheme, Tiergartenstrasse 4 in Berlin. A number of those involved even adopted pseudonyms. Brack himself used the alias ‘Jennerwein’, the name of an infamous nineteenth-century poacher. But there still came a point, late in 1939, when those involved thought some kind of official authorization for their actions was necessary. So Hitler was approached, most likely by Bouhler, and asked to confirm in writing that he had ordered the project. The result was a short note, signed by Hitler, which said that Bouhler and Dr Brandt had been given the ‘responsibility’ of authorizing doctors to grant ‘a mercy death’ to those suffering from ‘incurable’ illnesses. Significantly, Hitler backdated the note to ‘1 September 1939’, the day of the invasion of Poland. He thus emphasized once again the connection between his decision to kill the disabled and the outbreak of war. This link between the war and the creation of an apparatus for the mass murder of the disabled was important not just for Hitler. As many of those involved in the killings were told, why should the disabled and unproductive be allowed to live at a time when the healthy were dying on the battlefield?45
Hannelore Klein, like many other passengers from the St. Louis, would be sent on to Auschwitz-Birkenau. She survived the war. But 254 of the passengers would die in the concentration camps.
I found it difficult to swallow, however. I could not help thinking of my fellow-sufferers who, before starting on their exodus, had gathered and prepared their provisions. They had been hungry, but had refrained from eating during the entire trip in order to save their meager rations for their parents, their children and the more difficult times ahead. Only the more difficult times had never come: in the lobby of the crematorium the food had remained untouched.
28 Nyiszli, Auschwitz, p. 42.
CONSTRUCTION OF THE CAMP. The methodical construction of the camp started with the arrival in March 1944 of French prisoners who had come to Buchenwald in January by the third train from Compiègne. Unlike their predecessors, most of them did not go directly to the tunnel. This was also true, of course, for prisoners of other nationalities, such as Czechs. What it meant was that, from this point on, the tunnel factory ceased to be the priority for employing newcomers. It is therefore not surprising that the participants at the meeting with Rickhey on May 6, 1944, decided to ask Kammler for an additional eighteen hundred prisoners to meet the needs of Mittelwerk.
Once on the ramp at Auschwitz her father was selected to join one line and Eva and her mother another. ‘From that moment I heard nothing about my father,’ she says. ‘When I saw him for the last time he looked worried, sad and hopeless.’51 Her father was taken away and murdered in the gas chamber, while Eva and her mother were assigned to a construction commando. The work was physically demanding and the prisoners received little food or water. As a result, Eva’s mother became sick: ‘She had a fever and a dark film on her upper teeth – which was an unmistakable sign of deadly typhoid fever. Of course, I did not know this at the time. She told me that evening she needed to go to the hospital [in the camp]. I cried and begged her not to go there at least for one more day. No one ever came back from there.’ By now Eva knew that ‘people were taken straight to the gas chambers’ from the hospital. When Eva came back from work the following day she learnt that her mother had, despite her pleas, been admitted to the hospital. Three days later someone who worked in the hospital told Eva that her mother ‘had gone’. Shortly afterwards, Eva was assigned to the ‘corpse commando’ and collected bodies from all over the camp. Among the pile of human remains, Eva found a pair of glasses. ‘I knew they were my mother’s – the left glass was broken after my mum had been slapped by a German Kapo.’ Holding the glasses, Eva cried, and saw ‘all of her [mother’s] pain, sickness and misery in front of my eyes’. She kept ‘the glasses as the last memory of my mother until stomach typhoid fever infected me. Then they had to burn the pillow I used to hide them in. That is how I lost the last memory of my mother.’52
6 Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2012, p. 186.
The only serious historical study of the rescue operation organised by Jan Zwartendijk and Chiune Sugihara was conducted by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C., for the exhibition Flight and Rescue, held there from 4 May 2000 to 21 October 2001. The accompanying catalogue, Flight and Rescue (2001), edited by Sara J. Bloomfield, contains countless documents, letters, telegrams, first-hand accounts, and photographs. The picture it paints of the historical background is clear and nearly always accurate, and I have put the abundance of information it contains to grateful use.
I also took advantage of the friendly assistance of three specialists, Paul Le Goupil, Yves Le Maner, and Joachim Neander. Paul Le Goupil, former prisoner from Buchenwald’s “tattooed convoy” and from the Langenstein Kommando, is remarkably skilled in using archives and always ready to provide assistance. Yves Le Maner, highly qualified teacher at the Saint-Omer high school, is the man behind getting the Wizernes site better known, and is well informed about the history of the V2s and the importance of the Dora Tunnel. In 1997, Joachim Neander defended his doctoral thesis on Mittelbau, and in particular on the April 1945 evacuations.
The SS was thus very different from Ernst Röhm’s SA, the Sturmabteilung or assault section, a mass movement that engaged in street-level opposition to communist organizations. In the autumn of 1932 the SA counted some 700,000 men, as opposed to 50,000 in the SS. Nevertheless, right from the early years of the Nazi regime in 1933–34, the SS won out definitively over the SA and indeed played a decisive role in doing away with Röhm and his circle during the “Night of the Long Knives” on June 30, 1934. At the end of this period, Himmler was master of the concentration camps and the police. A veritable concentration camp system was set up in Dachau by Theodor Eicke, who, in July 1934, became Inspektor der Konzentrationslager. Other camps were later set up along the lines of this early model, including Sachsenhausen in 1936, Buchenwald in 1937, Mauthausen in 1938, and Ravensbrück in 1939. These camps were devised to intern and progressively eliminate opponents of the Nazi regime.
The Nazis created six euthanasia centres, five in Germany – Brandenburg, Grafeneck, Bernburg, Hadamar and Sonnenstein – and one in Austria at Hartheim, close to Linz. Typical was the one at Sonnenstein, on a hill in the suburbs outside the town of Pirna, not far from Dresden. Built originally as a fortress, the building was turned into a mental hospital in the nineteenth century. In 1940 work began on converting several rooms in the basement into a killing facility. One small room was made into a gas chamber and disguised as a shower room, with an airtight door linking it to a mortuary. Selected patients were taken in buses from other mental institutions in the area and on arrival at Sonnenstein told to enter the basement to take a shower, as part of the admissions procedure into the new hospital. Once the patients were in the fake shower room the gas valve was turned on and they were murdered. After they had been gassed and pronounced dead, their bodies were taken into the mortuary and any gold fillings or gold teeth in their mouths were removed. The bodies were then moved next door into a room that contained two cremation furnaces made by the Berlin firm of Heinrich Kori GmbH. The corpses were placed on a steel frame – normally two at a time – and pushed inside the furnace. Finally, their ashes were thrown out at the back of the building on to a hillside. During the operation of the Sonnenstein killing centre, from June 1940 to August 1941, an estimated 14,751 people were murdered in this way.50
These are the figures of Jews deported to Auschwitz – the great majority of whom died there. Almost all arrived at Auschwitz Birkenau, though the initial transports in 1942 went to Auschwitz main camp. The figures are taken from Franciszek Piper’s detailed analytical study, Auschwitz: How Many Perished, Oświęcim, Frap Books, 1996, p. 53.
In addition to these movements between camps, which had always existed, starting in 1943 there were also all the transports from main camps to ancillary camps or Kommandos, e.g., from Buchenwald to Dora, Laura, Wieda, or Blankenburg, or yet again, Gandersheim, Langenstein, or Neu Stassfurt. Finally, the transports to “rest” camps such as Maïdanek or Bergen-Belsen must not be forgotten. This long tradition must be borne in mind in examining the 1945 evacuation transports, both those from the Eastern European camps in January and February and those from the other camps in April and May.
Goebbels’ diary entry was disingenuous. It wasn’t so much that the Jews would ‘experience the rage of the people’ as that they would experience the rage of Nazi Stormtroopers. Throughout the night of 9 November, and the early hours of 10 November, Jewish shops and homes were smashed, synagogues were burnt, and Jews beaten up, arrested or even murdered. There are no accurate figures for how many Jews died that night – it was certainly more than ninety. Around 30,000 Jews were arrested and taken to concentration camps.
45 Previously unpublished testimony and Rees, Auschwitz, pp. 63–6.
I knew from experience that, whereas the clinics in most major cities of the world managed to furnish their institutes of forensic medicine with from 100 to 150 bodies for purposes of research, the Auschwitz KZ was capable of furnishing literally millions. Any person who had entered the gates of the KZ was a candidate for death. He whose destiny had directed him into the left-hand column was transformed by the gas chambers into a corpse within an hour after his arrival. Less fortunate was he whom adversity had singled out for the right-hand column. He was still a candidate for death, but with this difference, that for three or four months, or as long as he could endure, he had to submit to all the horrors the KZ had to offer, till he dropped from utter exhaustion. He bled from a thousand wounds. His belly was contorted with hunger, his eyes were haggard, and he moaned like one demented. He dragged his body across the fields of snow till he could go no farther. Trained dogs snapped at his wretched, fleshless frame, and when even the lice forsook his desiccated body, then the hour of deliverance, the hour of redeeming death was close at hand. Who then—of our parents, brothers, children —was more fortunate, he who went to the left or he who went to the right?
61 Franciszek Piper, Auschwitz 1940–1945: Central Issues in the History of the Camp, vol. 3: Mass Murder, Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum, 2000, p. 71.
This interaction between visionary leadership from above and initiatives from below was characteristic of the way the Holocaust developed. And, as we shall see, in the process of this evolution those involved were influenced not just by their own hate-filled ideology but also by the changing world around them.
It was around noon. Number one was not working that day. Having nothing to do for the moment, I was in my room idling away the time. The SS soldier on duty came in and asked me to report to the gate. The father and son, accompanied by the SS guard, were already there. I took the message sent me, which read: “Dissecting room, number one crematorium: that these two men be examined from a clinical point of view; that exact measurements of the two men be made; that clinical records be set up including all interesting details, and most especially those relative to the causes which provoked the bodily deformities.”
This was a Kommando dependent on Buchenwald but was actually quite far away, given that the small town of [Bad] Gandersheim is located some seven miles west of the edge of the Harz Mountains. It is thus not far from Seesen and Münchehof, which will be mentioned in chapter 19 with regard to evacuations.
Bailly (Jacques-Christian), Un lycéen à Buchenwald (Paris: Ramsay, 1979).
20 Radu Ioanid, The Holocaust in Romania: The Destruction of Jews and Gypsies under the Antonescu Regime, 1940–1944, Ivan R. Dee, 2008, p. 74; Kindle edition, location 1738–45.
ARRIVAL IN THE TUNNEL. To the north of the Kohnstein, in the Zorge valley, there was no room for any major new installations. To the south, on the other hand, it was possible to build a shunting yard with areas for stockpiling as well as an SS camp to the east and the concentration camp in the small valley.
37 Strzelecki, Auschwitz, vol. 5, pp. 35–6.
I checked the contents of my medical bag. It had been brought to me from the storeroom by a Sonder man and had probably belonged to one of my medical colleagues, who had checked it with his clothes in the cloakroom before entering the gas chamber. In it I found a stethoscope, an apparatus for taking blood pressure, some good syringes, a number of other essential instruments and drugs, and several ampoules for emergency injections. I was happy to have it, for I knew that it would come in handy during my “visits.” Here, in the Sonderkommando, “visits” meant making the rounds of the four crematoriums.
Over time, knowledge of the existence of the death camps seeped through the ghetto. By the start of 1944, for instance, Jacob Zylberstein knew all about Auschwitz. He had met a Polish carpenter on a building site who had said to him, ‘I was in Auschwitz.’ Jacob ‘took no notice, because I never heard of the city of Auschwitz. And I passed by. On the way back, he stopped me and said, “Do you know what Auschwitz is?” And I said, “Where is Auschwitz?” And he said, “Not far from Kraków. But you know what they do there? They are gassing and killing Jews.” And I said, “How do you know that?” He said, “I was there, I was working as a carpenter there.” Of course, for me it was the biggest shock ever.’ Jacob hurried to seek an audience with Rumkowski, to tell him what he had heard. Having listened to him, Rumkowski slapped Jacob in the face and ‘started to scream at me, “I’ll send you out from the ghetto [he said], if you say one word to anybody I’ll send you out from the ghetto” ’.41
This is significant in the context of the Holocaust, because it means that one cannot explain the crime by arguing that Hitler was somehow destined to commit it. While it is true that by the time he wrote Mein Kampf he had developed an immense hatred of Jews, the real trigger for that emotion seems to have been the manner of the German defeat in November 1918 combined with the political and economic situation in Bavaria in the immediate post-war years. These circumstances also explain why many people were suddenly entranced by his speeches. Before the war, when Hitler had ranted on to his acquaintances about his views on art, no one wanted to listen. Now, talking about politics, he connected with his followers because they shared the same essential emotions and prejudices.
Great confusion reigned for several years after 1945 with regard to judgments about the concentration camps—essentially because of Soviet policies at that time. The debate had to do with Buchenwald, and parenthetically, Dora. French opinion was affected only by the correlative revelations about the gulag. Things were far more serious in Eastern Europe.
Buchenwald Report, The (Kogon)
How Dr. Nyiszli fooled himself can be seen, for example, in his repeatedly referring to his work as a doctor, though he worked as the assistant of a vicious criminal. He speaks of the Institute for Race, Biological, and Anthropological Investigation as “one of the most qualified medical centers of the Third Reich” though it was devoted to proving falsehoods. That the author was a doctor didn’t at all change the fact that he, like any of the prisoner officials who served the SS better than some SS were willing to serve it, was a participant, an accessory to the crimes of the SS. How then could he do it and survive? By taking pride in his professional skills, irrespective of what purpose they were used for. Again and again this pride in his professional skill permeates his story of his and other prisoners’ sufferings. The important issue here is that Dr. Nyiszli, Dr. Mengele and hundreds of other far more prominent physicians, men trained long before the advent of Hitler to power, were participants in these human experiments and in the pseudo-scientific investigations that went with them. It is this pride in professional skill and knowledge, irrespective of moral implications, that is so dangerous. As a feature of modern society oriented toward technological competence it is still with us, though the concentration camps, the crematoria, the extermination of millions because of race, are no longer here. Auschwitz is gone, but as long as this attitude remains with us we shall not be safe from the criminal indifference to life at its core.
When Rudolf Höss, transferred from Sachsenhausen as the newly appointed commandant of the camp, arrived at Auschwitz in April 1940, he had no idea that the facility he was to create and run would become the site of the largest mass murder in the history of the world. That’s because he had been ordered to build not an extermination camp, but a more extreme version of Dachau – the ‘model’ camp run by Theodor Eicke in which Höss had originally trained. The town of Auschwitz, Oświęcim in Polish, was in Upper Silesia, a part of Poland that the Nazis wanted to Germanize, and the purpose of Höss’s new camp was to strike terror into the local Polish population.
It is at this point that a warning needs to be stated. Given this evidence of German anti-Semitic belief predating the emergence of Hitler and the Nazis as a political force, it would be easy to suppose that there is a straight line from the pre-First World War hatred of the Jews to the Third Reich and the Holocaust, that the horror that was to come was somehow inevitable. But such a view would be mistaken, for two important reasons. First, despite the vehemence of their views, the German anti-Semitic parties were not successful in convincing the rest of the country to support them. One calculation is that in the Reichstag of 1893 there were only sixteen elected representatives from anti-Semitic groups, plus about twelve more in other parties who supported their views.28 An overwhelming majority of German voters – 95 per cent – were not prepared to support overtly anti-Semitic parties at the ballot box.
Until the autumn of 1944 the commander of Dora, SS-Sturmbannführer (major) Otto Förschner, formerly of Buchenwald and supported by SS-Oberführer (colonel) Pister, commander of Buchenwald, seemed to have the situation under control. But little by little—under unknown circumstances—SS-Obersturmbannführer (lieutenant colonel) Helmut Bischoff came to exert greater and greater influence. He belonged to Kammler’s staff and was given the responsibility—at the end of 1943—of protecting the secret of the V2 program. His office was in Ilfeld in the Napola buildings, next to those of the Sonderausschuss A4. Since February 1944 all the services—SD, Gestapo, and so on—of the Mittelraum off-limits zone were under his control. It was he who was in charge of the various police and repression operations, which increased toward the end of 1944.
At the same time as these views were being voiced in Das Schwarze Korps, the SS in concentration camps were beating, whipping and otherwise tormenting thousands of Jews in the wake of Kristallnacht. What all this tells us, of course, is that the SS were prepared for radical action against the Jews nearly a year before the Second World War started.
By the Law Concerning Nationality, signed on 30 April 1941, Croat Jews were deprived of their citizenship. Three weeks later, on 23 May, another law was passed that ordered all Jews to be marked with yellow patches on their clothing. Businesses belonging to Croat Jews were seized – often to the benefit of other Croats rather than the government itself – and Jewish lawyers, doctors and other professionals were sacked from their jobs. But still worse was to come in the immediate aftermath of the German invasion of the Soviet Union, when on 26 June Ante Pavelić accused the Jews of profiteering and ordered them to be imprisoned in concentration camps.
The reference to ‘gas-chambers’ demonstrates that even this early in the deportation process there was some public knowledge of what was happening to the Jews. In London, on 9 July, at a press conference held by the Polish government-in-exile and attended by Brendan Bracken, the British Minister of Information, journalists had been briefed that the Germans were ‘deliberately carrying out their monstrous plan to exterminate Jews’ in Poland.30 But the Allies were still uncertain about the Germans’ broader intentions – did they, for instance, just want to kill Polish Jews? Were the Dutch and other European Jews perhaps genuinely to be used as forced labour?
What exactly did Hitler mean by this? A serious threat against the Jews, certainly. But did he explicitly mean that he intended to kill the Jews in the event of a world war? That is debatable, especially since there is no evidence that he had a detailed plan of destruction in mind for the Jews as he uttered these words. An alternative, more persuasive interpretation is that by ‘annihilation’ Hitler meant ‘elimination’, and thus one possible ‘solution’ to the Nazis’ Jewish ‘problem’ remained the destruction of the Jews in Europe by forcibly removing them from the continent. Support for this view is offered by Hitler’s statements earlier in his speech, when he denounced ‘the entire democratic world’ for their ‘non-intervention’ and failure to accept Jewish emigrants. These countries were ‘filled with tears of pity at the plight of the poor, tortured Jewish people, while remaining hardhearted’. It was in this context that Hitler promised that Germany would ‘banish this people’ – that is, the Jews.
The benefits to Himmler and the SS of their involvement in the Night of the Long Knives were immediate. On 20 July 1934 the SS were given the status of an equivalent organization to the SA – previously Himmler’s direct boss had been Röhm, now it was Hitler. Eicke was subsequently appointed inspector of the concentration camps and brought his organizational zeal to the entire network of protective-custody camps. Himmler and his band of followers were now at the centre of the security apparatus of the Nazi state.
44 Rudolf Hoess, Commandant of Auschwitz, Phoenix Press, 2001, p. 71.
Hitler was found guilty of high treason – no other verdict was possible given the evidence against him. But the court was lenient. The judge, Georg Neithardt, was one of many leading figures in the Bavarian establishment who was sympathetic to the aims of the Nazis. As a result, Hitler received the lightest sentence possible – five years in prison – with the expectation that he would be out on probation long before that sentence had been served.
By now, in addition to selected Soviet prisoners of war, Jews from the local area who had been identified as unfit to work were also dying in the Auschwitz crematorium. No one knows for sure when the first transport of these Jews arrived, but it was some time between the autumn of 1941 and the start of 1942. Their deaths marked a change in the function of Auschwitz, as these Jews were never formally admitted to the camp as prisoners, but were taken to the gas chamber directly from the surrounding district.
In July 1942, Eva Votavová arrived at Auschwitz as a seventeen-year-old with her family. It was the culmination of years of persecution. As a schoolgirl she had heard the Hlinka guards celebrate Slovak independence by shouting ‘Slovakia belongs to Slovaks, Palestine belongs to Jews.’ ‘It was obvious at first sight’, she says, ‘that they were militants with no moral values.’50 She felt rejected by the country of her birth and was distraught. ‘I could not cope with this,’ she says, ‘even today, I can’t.’ In 1942, a commander of the Hlinka Guard lived in her village and wanted her family’s house. So he arranged that they would be one of the first Jewish families to be deported. As a result, Eva, together with her father and mother, left Slovakia on 17 July, crammed into ‘animal cargo trucks’.
We set off in the direction of the thick twisting spiral of smoke. All those unfortunate enough to be brought here saw this column of smoke, which was visible from any point in the KZ, from the moment they first descended from the box cars and lined up for selection. It was visible at every hour of the day and night. By day it covered the sky above Birkenau with a thick cloud; by night it lighted the area with a hellish glow.
The signal to attack would be given by flashlight signals from number one crematorium. Number two would immediately transmit the signal to number three, which would in turn alert number four. The plans seemed all the more feasible to me for the simple reason that the only crematorium working was number one. And even it would knock off work at 6:00 P.M., which meant that the Sonderkommando night shift would not go on duty that evening. Whenever this happened, the SS guards tended to relax their vigil. There were three SS guards in each crematorium.
When German academic Peter Reichel’s book—initially published in German in 1995 under the title Politik mit der Erinnerung—was published in French in March 1998, it was decided to entitle it Germany and Its Memory. Reichel emphasizes the fact that, for a period of fifty years, “commemoration” in East Germany and West Germany was utterly different; the question arises as to what should be celebrated—and in what way—in unified Germany, especially in reunified Berlin, once again the capital city. Much of his study was of course devoted to the concentration camps. In this respect, from a purely material point of view what was done in the GDR was far more impressive than in the FRG. Buchenwald and Sachsenhausen were made into large monument complexes, and Ravensbrück and Dora, with more modest means, were by no means overlooked. In the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) on the other hand, Dachau and Bergen-Belsen had been dealt with discreetly while Neuengamme—and still more so Flossenbürg—had been neglected altogether.
Of the four sets of twins, three had ocular globes of different colors. One eye was brown, the other blue. This is a phenomenon found fairly frequently in non-twins. But in the present case I noticed that it had occurred in six out of the eight twins. An extremely interesting collection of anomalies. Medical science calls them heterochromes, which means, merely, different-colored. I cut out the eyes and put them in a solution of formaldehyde, noting their characteristics exactly in order not to mix them up. During my examination of the four sets of twins, I discovered still another curious phenomenon: while removing the skin from the neck I noticed, just above the upper extremity of the sternum, a tumor about the size of a small nut. Pressing on it with my forceps I found it to be filled with a thick pus. This rare manifestation, well known to medical science, indicates the presence of hereditary syphilis and is called DuBois’ tumor. Looking farther, I found that it existed in all eight twins. I cut out the tumor, leaving it surrounded by healthy tissue, and placed it in another jar of formaldehyde. In two sets of twins I also discovered evidence of active, cavernous tuberculosis. I recorded my findings on the dissection report, but left the heading “Cause of Death” blank.
The consequence of this absolutely unavoidable procedure was to give a somewhat stereotyped picture of the concentration camp universe—a picture stemming from the experience of the German political prisoners who had spent many long years imprisoned in one of the “big” camps. It was in this way that the specificity of the Shoah came to be inadequately emphasized—although this did not prevent the three above-named authors from proving themselves effective adversaries of attempts at revisionism. In the same way, too little weight was put on the shift in scale that took place in the last two years of the camps’ history, between 1943 and 1945, because of the increase in the number of exterior Kommandos and the considerable growth in the number of prisoners.
16. Klein, D’Auschwitz à Gross Rosen et à Buchenwald, pp. 504–5.
The year 1938 was significant not only for the promulgation of the circular on Combating the Gypsy Plague, but also because the regime increased the level of threat against the Sinti and Roma in other ways. Many German Sinti and Roma were picked up during an attack on the ‘work-shy’ in June 1938 and transported to concentration camps – one manpower report at Sachsenhausen camp, for example, registered the arrival of 248 Gypsies.23 Austrian Sinti and Roma were also targeted and taken to the new concentration camp at Mauthausen near Linz, where they were forced to work in terrible conditions. Adolf Gussak, an Austrian classed as a Gypsy by the Nazis, recalled that ‘In the quarry we had to carry heavy stones. With them on our backs we had to climb the 180 steps up [towards the camp]. The SS beat us. As a result there often was some pushing: everybody wanted to escape the blows. If anyone fell down he was finished off by a bullet in the back of his neck.’24
It was one thing, however, to believe this in theory, quite another to watch mass murder in practice. Normally Oskar Groening could avoid the horror as most of his working hours were spent in an office, but when he saw the bloody evidence of the killings he was shocked. Once he came across bodies being burnt in the open at Birkenau: ‘The fire was flickering up and the Kapo there told me afterwards details of the burning. And it was terribly disgusting – horrendous. He made fun of the fact that when the bodies started burning they obviously developed gases from the lungs or elsewhere and these bodies seemed to jump up, and the sex parts of the men suddenly became erect in a kind of way that he found laughable.’19 But for the most part life in the camp was comfortable for Groening – almost luxurious compared to the other postings that he might have received. He, like many of the 3,000 SS serving in the Auschwitz complex, never had to bloody his own hands since only a tiny number of SS worked in the murder factories of the crematoria. For him, this ‘distance’ from the killing was ‘the decisive thing’ that enabled him to carry on working in a relatively contented way.20 So much so that in his leisure time he liked to participate in sports. For instance, he represented the Auschwitz SS athletics team at the high jump.
My head spinning, struck dumb with horror, I walked along the gravel path which divided the well-kept lawn of the crematorium courtyard. My gaze wandered to the evening muster of Sonderkommando. This evening there was no change of guard. Number one crematorium was not working today. I glanced in the direction of numbers two, three and four: their chimneys were spewing flame and smoke. Business as usual.
After the war, Auschwitz survivors sometimes had to endure taunts that they had lacked the courage to resist. Halina Birenbaum remembers that when she reached Israel in 1947 she was distraught when other members of the kibbutz said to her, ‘You just followed like sheep. You didn’t defend yourselves. Why didn’t you defend yourselves? What happened to you? You’re to blame. You didn’t do anything. That kind of thing wouldn’t happen to us. Don’t tell us about it. It’s a disgrace. Don’t tell the young people, you’ll crush their fighting spirit.’14
All of the Slovak women were admitted directly into the camp. The infamous process of selection on arrival at Auschwitz, by which a proportion of each new transport was sent directly to be killed, had not yet begun. That was not just because the first transports contained only Jews who had been judged fit for work before they left Slovakia, but also because the only gas chamber at Auschwitz in the crematorium of the main camp was an impractical method of killing people on a large scale. One difficulty the Nazis had, as we have seen, was that it was impossible to conduct the killings discreetly in the crematorium because the building was close not just to SS administrative offices, but to the barracks where the prisoners lived.
From June 1944 on the convoys coming from Buchenwald were no longer directed toward Harzungen but toward Dora, and especially toward Ellrich or Blankenburg. This was the case of the Belgian convoys of June 19 and August 10, and the French “77,000”s. In July and August, it is true, prisoners from several Dora Kommandos were transferred to Harzungen, but many of them remained there only a short while. This was the case for Pierre Auchabie, who arrived on August 15 only to leave again on August 30 for Ellrich. Thanks to an “accident on the job” (injured by a stone falling on a work site), Jean Mialet avoided this transfer.8 Those who also remained at Harzungen—such as Raymond Jacob, Joannès Méfret, Lucien Maronneau, Pierre Pointe, and Jean de Sesmaisons—consider themselves lucky.
Once the convoy had crossed the Elbe it immediately went toward Sachsenhausen. It reached Nauen, continued on to Flatow and Kremmen, and had to come back to Nauen on April 12. It made another attempt as far as Döberitz, a station located south of Falkensee, in vain. The train departed again on April 13 and got as far as Nauen, Kremmen, and Oranienburg, which was then bombed. After a long stop, access to the Heinkel Kommando in Oranienburg proved to be impossible. The convoy left again and this time managed to reach Ravensbrück via Gransee and Fürstenberg on April 14 at 1:30 P.M. Two days later the Ellrich convoy was admitted to Oranienburg. It had been delayed by two days, perhaps due to crossing the Elbe farther downstream than the Dora convoy.
Adjustment over the years to force and exclusion, the longing for “order” and “security,” a world image polarized by war, and a deep fear of everything “alien” made possible an evolution of force and a readiness of the population to collaborate, energized by an ideological point of view. Without the passive or consensual collaboration of substantial sections of the population, the concentration camp system could not have lasted long. That no specific Nazi ideology was required is the most disquieting result of the study of the Mittelbau camps and their social environs. But had it “only” been, as Daniel J. Goldhagen asserts, the “eliminationist anti-Semitism” of the Germans that made nearly an entire society co-perpetrators of the mass murder, one would have to treat as only half-serious the warning of the French writer and camp survivor David Rousset that the camp crimes could happen again “in a new form.”48
22 Ancel, ibid., p. 455, says 8,000, the US Holocaust Memorial Museum says ‘at least 4,000’. Figure from US Holocaust Memorial Museum, http://www.ushmm.org/information/museum-programs-and-calendar/first-person-program/first-person-podcast/haim-solomon-hiding-during-the-pogrom-in-iasi.
It is possible to get an idea of what the convoy went through by following the route of another convoy that arrived in Dachau on the same day. The information comes from a recently published book by François Bertrand,42 Notre devoir de mémoire. Bertrand belonged to this convoy from Buchenwald, which left Weimar on April 7 in the evening with 5,080 prisoners from the small camp, many of whom were already very weak. Others, such as Bertrand, came from prisons or satellite Kommandos.
We cannot know for certain exactly why the Nazis administered their policy of mass killing in this way. But the most persuasive explanation is that they were aware that public knowledge of what they were doing could lead to problems for them. The lesson to take from Bishop von Galen’s protests over euthanasia, as far as the Nazis were concerned, would have been to put more effort into keeping killing projects secret. It was not so much that the Nazis would have been concerned about public protests in Germany – although that remained a risk – as the consequences abroad if the rest of the world knew in detail what was happening. Hitler, in particular, would have been concerned about damage to his prestige. He envisaged a life for Germany after the war was won and it would be diplomatically easier for the German head of state if the extermination of the Jews had been kept secret – or at least that he himself had managed to maintain plausible distance from it. Having decided in 1939 to sign a document authorizing the euthanasia scheme, and subsequently seen the way the church attacked the Nazis, Hitler would have been doubly concerned to keep his name out of any other killing actions that might attract negative publicity. While he could stand in front of the Reichstag and predict in principle the extermination of the Jews if there was a world war, that wasn’t the same as revealing in detail how Jewish men, women and children were being slaughtered. Much better, from Hitler’s perspective, to make sure that no order in his name about this sensitive project ever existed. He was well aware that written orders could come back and haunt the sender. That is one reason he remarked in October 1941, ‘it’s much better to meet than to write, at least when some matter of capital importance is at issue.’82
It is not possible to say that Galen’s intervention led directly to the cancellation of the T4 operation, given that Hitler was already anxious about civilian morale in the light of the crucifix controversy and other concerns.34 Nonetheless, this episode does demonstrate not just the personal courage of Bishop von Galen but also that open resistance was possible in the Third Reich – risky, of course, but possible. It is significant that something similar was not attempted by Bishop von Galen in particular or the German public in general over the treatment of the Jews. Underlying anti-Semitism amongst much of the population was not the only reason for this lack of action. Protests also did not occur because the Catholic Church in Germany had distanced itself from the persecution of the Jews, fearing the consequences for the church itself of protesting. In addition, most non-Jewish Germans were not personally affected by the way the Jews were treated. By now the Jews were almost completely isolated from the rest of the population. They lived in Jewish houses and their children attended Jewish schools. On the other hand, most German civilians had a relative in the armed forces, and so the adult euthanasia scheme affected them directly. What if their loved ones were murdered by the state after they became severely injured in battle?
Sachso (association of French deportees of Sachsenhausen)
THE FIRST IMAGE: THE HELL OF 1943–44. The first images came from the veterans of Buchenwald who still remembered, long afterward, their fear of being sent in a “transport” to the Dora Kommando. The idea of death was not foreign to the Buchenwald prisoners at the end of 1943, but in November, when the trucks began returning from Dora loaded with corpses to be incinerated at the crematorium, this fear gradually penetrated the entire camp. For the trucks kept coming until the end of March 1944, when Dora was equipped with its own incineration system.
Three realms deserve to be explored, in that they prolong the history of Dora itself. There was, first of all, beginning with the V2 experiment, rocket research that migrated from Germany to the United States and the USSR, and even France and Great Britain. The period of the Dora Tunnel was thus seen as a mere episode, left aside for many long years. There were the trials of the war criminals, especially those connected to the concentration camps, including Dora. And there were, lastly, the consequences for historians and public opinion of the discovery of the concentration camp system. The Buchenwald camp was at the heart of the debate—which meant that the Dora camp was also concerned.
In early April 1945 the mines were ready for the installation of an underground factory for producing tank parts, according to the Kommandos’ list of March 25, 1945, found at Buchenwald.
60 Ibid., pp. 191–2; but note that one Jewish hospital at Bendorf-Sayn was exempt from this – these patients were later killed as part of the Final Solution.
44 Livia Rothkirchen, ‘The Churches and the Deportation and Persecution of Jews in Slovakia’, in Carol Rittner, Stephen D. Smith and Irena Steinfeldt (eds.), The Holocaust and the Christian World, Yad Vashem, 2000, pp. 104–7.
The fact that Jesus was born Jewish was obviously awkward for the Nazis, but the widespread adoption of Houston Chamberlain’s argument that Jesus might have been not of Jewish but of Aryan descent overcame this difficulty. In his Myth of the Twentieth Century the Nazi theorist Alfred Rosenberg developed Chamberlain’s idea and proposed ‘Positive Christianity’ – the establishment of a Christian church free of ‘Jewish’ influence, with Jesus descended from a Nordic ancestor.
Some became disappointed in their new homelands, and moved on again. Zorach Warhaftig arrived in Canada in 1941, and left Vancouver with his wife and daughter in 1947. He did not arrive at his final destination until he set foot on the soil of Palestine. The Shoah had turned him into a radical Zionist. Having escaped the murder machine, he blamed every goy in Canada, the United States, and Europe for what had happened in the war. He could no longer put down roots anywhere – save Israel.
13. Bailly, Un lycéen à Buchenwald, pp. 93–111.
Once out, we would head for the loop of the Vistula two kilometers away. At this time of year the river was very low and could easily be forded. Eight kilometers from the Vistula there were vast forests, extending to the Polish border, in which we should be able to live for weeks, even months if necessary, in relative safety. Or perhaps we would run into some partisans along the way. Our supply of weapons was adequate. During the preceding few days a shipment of about a hundred boxes of high explosives had reached the camp, sent from the Unio factories of Auschwitz, a munitions plant that employed Polish Jews as workers. The Germans used it for blowing up railroad lines. Besides this stock, we had five machine guns and twenty hand grenades.
Mengele was not the only Nazi doctor who conducted medical experiments at Auschwitz. In a specially equipped medical block, for instance, Professor Carl Clauberg and Dr Horst Schumann both conducted research into sterilization. Wilhelm Brasse, who took photos for Mengele, also took photographs of women under anaesthetic who had been subjected to these sterilization experiments. The women were placed in a special gynaecological chair and the doctors ‘would stretch the vagina and take the uterus out with forceps, and I would take photos of it. Not the whole person but just the sexual parts and the uterus. In several cases I used colour film. We didn’t develop it in our lab as we didn’t have a colour film lab, we sent it to Berlin … For me it was the worst – seeing this terrible sight. I had information that in many cases such operated women were [subsequently] given a shot [an injection] and killed.’5
So, as late as 1963, Zwartendijk must have still believed that the refugees with Curaçao visas really did travel to Curaçao, and that they went on to the United States from there. Benjamin Grey did not set him straight, but did send a brief reply stating that he was honoured to be embarking on his research. In the course of that research, Grey was in communication not only with the Institute for the Righteous Acts in California, but also with the International Institute for Holocaust Research in Jerusalem. He proceeded with skill, at a measured pace – far too measured. It would take years before his research yielded any results.
In addition, unlike Auschwitz, the Nazis wanted to keep the existence of Bełżec and the other death camps totally secret. Auschwitz, in the tradition of concentration camps like Dachau and Sachsenhausen, was built near a large town. There was no pretence at concealment. Indeed, as a place of terror, it was a positive advantage for the Nazis if the general public knew of its existence. Only when the camp also became involved in mass murder via gas chambers was it necessary to hide part of the function of the place. Bełżec, on the other hand, was a clandestine place from the very beginning. So much so that the 150 Jews who had been forced to build the camp were murdered after they had completed their work. They were the first to die in a test of the new gas chambers.32
THE HOLOCAUST
While jurisdiction over Helmstedt passed from Buchenwald to Neuengamme, Buchenwald set up a new Kommando in August 1944 at Weferlingen, six or so miles to the north of Bartensleben. Its mission was to transform a fifteen-hundred-foot-deep salt mine, and the Kommando was called Gazelle. It is known about thanks to André Chicaud’s testimony.27
I suspect the Dutch priest was Jan Peeperkorn, even though I lack decisive evidence from any church records. The Dutch episcopal archives are hardly in working order anymore, and the archives of the Jesuit order remain closed for at least one hundred years – no exceptions for martyrs. But I did find a report in a mission newsletter about Jan Peeperkorn, a Jesuit in Lithuania, and there can’t have been so many Jans working there. In 1941, he turned up in Latvia.
None of this is to say, however, that any of these other initiatives was analogous with the desire of the Nazis to exterminate the Jews – for hatred of the Jews was always at the core of Nazi thinking. So, against this background, I have taken the word ‘Holocaust’ to mean the Nazi persecution of the Jews, culminating in the implementation of a desire to exterminate them, but I have also accepted that this crime cannot be understood unless set into a broader picture.
He tried to understand how the SS could be responsible for the appalling cruelty in front of him and yet still consider themselves civilized. In Birkenau he heard ‘the camp’s orchestra playing masterpieces by German, Austrian and Italian composers. SS men were sitting by the crematorium where children, mothers, women and men were burning, but they were just sitting there. Now I think that they were pleased to have properly completed their work and were due for a cultural entertainment. They had no dilemmas. The wind from Birkenau blew the smoke from the death camp in but they were just sitting and listening to Mozart and others. This is what a human being is capable of …’ Experiences like this confirmed the view of the world that he had formed as a child. ‘As a thirteen-year-old boy I used to read a lot and I listened to the radio, and I had the conviction that Earth is embraced by crime and there is so much evil among people. I came to a conclusion that life has no sense.’17
In early 1944 the camp was assigned a new use. In addition to the sections reserved for Jews, Bergen-Belsen was transformed into a “rest camp” where other camps sent their sick prisoners. The first “transport” of 1,000 prisoners, already discussed in chapter 6, arrived from Dora on March 27, 1944. Most of the ill died at Bergen-Belsen, some of them very quickly, such as Colonel d’Astorg. Some came back to Dora via Buchenwald. Others survived until the camp was liberated, such as Michel Fliecx and Aimé Blanc.
Mittelbau-Dora in the System of Nazi Concentration Camps
Other work sites were situated to the east of the Harz Mountains, first Langenstein (B 2), then Neu Stassfurt and Wansleben, whose Kommandos remained linked to Buchenwald. By way of exception, the Blankenburg work site was operated by the Todt Organization. The Heimkehle work site, to the east of Nordhausen, given the code A 5, was dependent on Porta Westfalica, as was Stempeda (B 4); the neighboring Kommando of Rottleberode was transferred in late 1944 from Buchenwald to Mittelbau. But the Mittelraum’s largest group was at the Kohnstein and Himmelberg work sites, which will later be examined in greater detail.
In early 1941, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany concluded a treaty on repatriation from Lithuania for Volksdeutsche who were citizens of the Reich. The Germans called that Umsiedlung, resettlement. The Soviets still feared that the Volksdeutsche would rise up against them, and that Hitler would seize the opportunity to invade Lithuania. It was Dekanozov, the Russian ambassador in Berlin, who signed the treaty on behalf of the Soviet Union. The Volksdeutsche were to be accommodated in a camp in Łódź.
THE LATE RETURN OF THE LAST SURVIVORS. As has been explained in the previous chapters, due to the vagaries of the evacuations, sick prisoners were more or less abandoned at Dora, Seesen, Bergen-Belsen, Sulingen, Beendorf, and Halberstadt. Doctors and other devoted comrades took care of them with the limited means available prior to the intervention of American or British military, who could not cope themselves when the problems reached the scale of Bergen-Belsen. Similar situations arose between the Elbe and the Oder Rivers, in Sachsenhausen, Schwerin, Malchow, and Ravensbrück.
STUDIES ON NAZI CONCENTRATION CAMPS LINKED TO DORA-MITTELBAU
41 See http://www.ushmm.org/learn/students/learning-materials-and-resources/homosexuals-victims-of-the-nazi-era/persecution-of-homosexuals. The museum estimates that 5,000–15,000 homosexuals were sent to concentration camps.
Against that background, it is hard to see how anything of substance could have been accomplished at Evian without allowing discussion of the status of Palestine. Not only did the World Jewish Congress believe that ‘a Jewish State’ could solve the problem, but the Polish government also supported the idea of allowing large numbers of Jews into Palestine.60 In that respect the British authorities must take responsibility for not allowing ‘the immense possibilities of Palestine as an outlet for Jewish immigration’ to be discussed. But by the time of the Evian conference the British must have believed they had enough problems controlling Palestine without adding more potential conflict to the existing mix. An Arab revolt had broken out in 1937, triggered by the report of a British Royal Commission that had recommended partitioning the country between Jews and Arabs. In May 1939, after the revolt had finally been suppressed, the British rejected the idea of partitioning Palestine and announced that there would be no Jewish state in Palestine after all. Strict limits were placed on Jewish immigration to Palestine in order, many suspected, to ensure that Arabs remained in a majority. It was devastating news for the thousands of Jews who desperately wanted to find a way out of the Third Reich. To supporters of Zionism, who remembered the fine words of the 1917 Balfour Declaration, it was nothing less than a betrayal. Winston Churchill, a supporter of Zionism, called the decision a ‘lamentable act of default’.61 Moreover, it was obvious that the British government had acted in this way in an attempt to mollify the Arabs. Strategic British interests – like the Suez Canal – lay in Arab territory, and geopolitically the Jews had little to bargain with by comparison. As the British Prime Minister, Neville Chamberlain, stated at a meeting of a cabinet committee on Palestine on 20 April 1939, it was of ‘immense importance’ that Britain should ‘have the Muslim world with us’. Consequently, ‘If we must offend one side, let us offend the Jews rather than the Arabs.’62 Once again political pragmatism triumphed over compassionate humanitarianism.
Heavy footsteps resounded just in front of our door. An SS opened it a crack and shouted again: “Antreten, antreten!” With sinking hearts we headed for the crematorium courtyard, where a group of well-armed SS already encircled a group of kommando men as we walked up to join them. There was neither surprise nor the faintest sign of protest from anyone. The SS, their machine guns leveled, waited patiently till the last stragglers had joined the group. I glanced around for the last time. The motionless pines that formed a little tunnel at the end of the courtyard were blanketed with snow. All was quiet and very peaceful.
44. Staff at Auschwitz relax (United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, courtesy of Anonymous Donor)
A year earlier, Piet and Mary had taken in a close Jewish friend of Mary’s from Rotterdam, who had escaped a roundup and was searching for a hiding place. The children were told to call her Aunt Bertie. She stayed with them for the whole year of 1942. In January 1943, she fell ill, seriously ill. It turned out to be cancer. A doctor who was a friend of the family gave her morphine for the worst pain, but she couldn’t go to the hospital because she would be arrested at once and deported to a concentration camp. For weeks, she lay in Piet and Mary’s guest room, wasting away.
10 Michael MacQueen, ‘Lithuanian Collaboration in the “Final Solution”: Motivations and Case Studies’, in Lithuania and the Jews: The Holocaust Chapter, Symposium Presentations, Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies, United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, 2004.
We left by the main gate. No one stopped us. The abrupt change seemed incredible. Our path led through the little forest of Birkenau, whose trees were covered from trunk to top with a heavy layer of glistening snow. The same path down which millions had walked on their way to death. . . . We passed beside the Jewish ramp, buried in the snow. And here they had climbed down from the boxcars for selection. . . . The image of the two columns, left and right, separated forever, gazing sadly across at those they had just left, came back to me. But for all of them, the matter had merely been one of chronological order: they were all dead.
The camps of Buchenwald, Sachsenhausen, and Ravensbrück were not then considered by the Soviets as centers that had to be preserved but as handy installations for whomever they had to intern. In their zone, they of course arrested the Nazi leaders, Gestapo agents, and so on. But they also went after social democratic activists who were hostile to their party joining up with the Communist Party to form the SED.
By a conservative estimate, twelve million people perished in the Nazi concentration camps. Most were murdered in cold blood, but countless others died by starvation, illness, and suicide. The numbers are too staggering to comprehend. The value of Dr. Nyiszli’s book is not in its insights. Its importance lies in its ability to show us, firsthand, what that netherworld really was. It tells, as Bruno Bettelheim says, “of events which, though gruesome, need to be told and retold until their meaning for our times is accepted.”
Putting together collections of testimony implies thematic classification. This was Olga Wormser and Henri Michel’s decision in their classic Tragédie de la déportation,16 which dealt successively with the following subjects: the convoys, arrival in the camp and the quarantine, daily life, work, social categories, spiritual life and resistance, the Revier, death, evacuations. Their collection, like a certain number of others put together later following an identical schema, enables the description of the concentration camp system, but does not make it possible to see its evolution or to distinguish one situation from one another, though they were often very different from one moment or camp to another.
44 Christopher Browning, Path to Genocide: Essays on Launching the Final Solution, Cambridge University Press, 1993, p. 33.
THE CREMATORIUMS WERE BEING readied. The men of the Sonderkommando were redoing the refractory surfaces of the furnace entrances, painting the heavy iron doors and oiling the hinges. The dynamos and ventilators were running all day long. A specialist made sure they were functioning properly. The arrival of the Litzmannstadt ghetto had been announced.
For a time the mass of prisoners who were dragged unwillingly into this historical adventure were ignored. Only gradually did the writers of these more or less scientific works realize that Dora, once a mere Kommando under the authority of Buchenwald, had in fact become one of the most dreaded concentration camps in Nazi Germany. The prisoners and their sufferings were mentioned in the accounts but only incidentally, as they were merely supernumeraries, which, by the way, they have remained. How the camp actually operated was never dealt with either.
7 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 187.
The consequence of forced labor in the armaments industry was that the camp system with its satellites penetrated ever deeper into German and European society in the second half of the war. But the expansion beyond its parameters also became noticeable in other ways. Not only was the recruitment field for guards steadily enlarged, so especially was the circle of those potentially threatened with incarceration in these camps. The arrest categories were constantly enlarged; in Mittelbau-Dora there were inmate categories unknown in the earlier concentration camps.
It was at Dora that one finds heroes to be honored—Albert Kuntz foremost among them. He had been an important figure at Buchenwald, and along with Bartel was one of the three clandestine communist leaders from his arrival in 1937 until his departure for a Kommando at Kassel in 1943. As seen in chapter 9, he later ended up at Dora as a Prominent from the very beginnings of the camp. He was Bauleiter and seems to have been listened to by Förschner, who had also come from Buchenwald, where he had not left a bad memory. It is likely that Kuntz was thus behind two other communists sent from Buchenwald being appointed LÄ1 and 2 in the summer of 1944.
The first, lasting some ten years, was the direct follow-up of the devastating world war. Germany, in ruins, ceased to exist as a state. Trials of war criminals got under way. A whole concentration camp system, which had just been discovered, was examined and cross-examined. And each of the victors sought to appropriate the techniques of the vanquished—above all its “secret weapons.” This is the subject of chapter 23.
Just days before the Germans entered the Warsaw ghetto in an attempt to clear the area of Jews, an event of enormous importance occurred in the development of Auschwitz. In March 1943, the first of a series of new killing facilities opened at Auschwitz Birkenau. Originally, as we have seen, the SS intended to place this crematorium/gas chamber in the main camp, but they subsequently changed its location to Birkenau. During the design stage various changes were made so that the building could function not just as a crematorium but also as a gas chamber. In August 1942 three more crematoria had been ordered – one virtually the same as the existing commission, and two of a different design. These two new crematoria, eventually to be known as Crematoria IV and V, marked a radical change.
I HAD BECOME USED TO SEEING A TRUCK enter the crematorium gate every evening about seven o’clock, carrying 70 to 80 men and women on their way to be liquidated. Coming from the barracks hospital, they represented the KZ’s daily selection. Prisoners for several years, or at least for several months, they were fully aware of the fate awaiting them. When the truck entered the courtyard the walls resounded with the screams and cries of the damned. They knew that at the foot of the crematory ovens all hope of escape dissolved.
Annette Wieviorka31 talks of “different repatriation” with regard to Bergen-Belsen based on the memoirs of Dr. Fréjafon, who remained at Bergen-Belsen and took care of the women, especially Jewish ones, who in May had still not yet been repatriated. Simone Jacob did not arrive in Paris with her sister until May 23.32 Next, Dr. Waitz, a former prisoner at Monowitz and Buchenwald, went on assignment to organize the repatriation in early June of the 121 French prisoners still hospitalized in Bergen-Belsen and Sulingen. Even today it is impossible to say who was responsible, but there is no doubt that there was a certain amount of negligence at the time.
FOR THE NEXT THREE DAYS I HAD NOTHING to do. I was still drawing the supplementary rations issued to doctors, but I spent most of my time either stretched out on my bed or seated on the bleachers of the stadium, which was located not far from F Camp. Yes, even Auschwitz had its stadium. But it was reserved exclusively for the use of the German prisoners of the Third Reich, who acted as clerks in various camp sections. On Sundays the stadium was the excited hub of sports activity, but on weekdays the vast field lay quiet and empty. Only a barbed wire fence separated the stadium from number one crematorium. I wanted very much to know just what went on in the shadow of the immense stack, which never ceased spewing tongues of flame. From where I was sitting there was not much one could see. And to approach the barbed wire was unwise, for the watchtower machine guns sprayed the area without warning to frighten away anyone who happened to wander into this No-Man’s-Land.
Socialism in concentration camps
20 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, p. 316.
In all likelihood a group of NN inmates were deported to Mittelbau-Dora. One may assume that a large number of the 1,085, mainly French, inmates transferred in September 1944 from the Natzweiler-Cochem satellite camp to Dora were category NN prisoners. In contrast to other concentration camps, NN inmates of Mittelbau were not identified as such, either by markings on their prison garb or in statistics. It is therefore rather unlikely that as a group they suffered worse privations than other inmate groups. Some survivors’ oft-advanced claim to NN status seems hardly useful in trying to clarify the high number of dead among West Europeans in the Mittelbau camps. Rather, numbers of such claims seem indicative of a latter-day effort to rationalize one’s own suffering and the death of fellow inmates, this since the idea of senseless suffering often collides with the self-image former inmates have.
The experiments, in medical language called in vivo, i.e., experiments performed on live human beings, were far from exhausting the research possibilities in the study of twins. Full of lacunae, they offered no better than partial results. The in vivo experiments were succeeded by the most important phase of twin-study: the comparative examination from the viewpoints of anatomy and pathology. Here it was a question of comparing the twins’ healthy organs with those functioning abnormally, or of comparing their illnesses. For that study, as for all studies of a pathological nature, corpses were needed. Since it was necessary to perform a dissection for the simultaneous evaluation of anomalies, the twins had to die at the same time. So it was that they met their death in the B section of one of Auschwitz’s KZ barracks, at the hand of Dr. Mengele.
The steady enlargement of the main Dora camp also showed all the signs of improvisation. Indeed, its external appearance had already set it apart from all the earlier constructed main concentration camps. There was no “representative” entrance gate to the camp with typical SS slogans. Furthermore the SS passed up the construction of massive quarters for the guard units. Even more evidence of improvisation was furnished by a look at the construction projects of the Kammler and the Geilenberg staff. The mania for gigantic construction projects of “Enterprise Mittelbau” were reflexes linked to the desperate military situation. They were also projection screens for flights from reality, a tactic that many party officials, members of the military, and industrialists used to escape the realization of military defeat. Mass death in Mittelbau was mainly a consequence of the auto-suggestive dynamic of the power fantasies of architects, rocket engineers, and Nazi armaments planners. The plans for the subterranean transfer project were constantly altered. When target dates could not be met—which was almost always the case—still more ambitious plans were submitted. Gradually all sense of reality was lost in an ever-growing demand for labor. Workers were “borrowed”—according to the “Quellen-Begriff” of the Kammler staff—from the concentration camps at the construction sites. Given minimal food allocations, in a situation where the approaching end of war spelled little concern for maintaining reserves, the inmates at the construction sites had a life expectancy of a few weeks or, at most, a couple of months. André Sellier describes this form of killing in affecting words.
12 Testimony from Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, Episode 5, transmitted on BBC2, February 2005.
And this was the man I had to deal with, the man I had to talk into allowing a single life to be spared. I calmly related the terrible case we found ourselves confronted with. I described for his benefit what pains the child must have suffered in the undressing room, and the horrible scenes that preceded death in the gas chamber. When the room had been plunged into darkness, she had breathed in a few lungfuls of cyclon gas. Only a few, though, for her fragile body had given way under the pushing and shoving of the mass as they fought against death. By chance she had fallen with her face against the wet concrete floor. That bit of humidity had kept her from being asphyxiated, for cyclon gas does not react under humid conditions.
The answer to Ben Gurion’s question is, almost certainly, no. The Allies would surely not ‘have acted in the same way’ if, for example, British prisoners of war were being gassed at Auschwitz. That is a judgement that is supported by the evidence. As we have seen, the Allies didn’t want to commit themselves at the Bermuda conference in 1943 to admitting large number of Jews into their countries – even though at the end of 1942 they had condemned the Nazis’ extermination of the Jews. In Washington in March 1943, a month before the Bermuda conference, Anthony Eden, the British Foreign Secretary, had said in a meeting that it was imperative ‘to move very cautiously about offering to take all Jews out of a country’ because ‘if we do that, then the Jews of the world will be wanting us to make similar efforts in Poland and Germany. Hitler might well take us up on any such offer, and there simply are not enough ships and means of transportation in the world to handle them.’6 To paraphrase Ben Gurion’s question in the light of Eden’s words, does anyone think such an excuse for inaction would have been thought acceptable if the Germans were murdering British or American prisoners of war? Would the British and Americans seriously have let their soldiers be massacred just because ships couldn’t be diverted to take them across the English Channel to safety, especially when ships were found during the war to transport several hundred thousand captured enemy prisoners across the Atlantic to North America? No, Eden’s excuse is simply not credible.
The structure of the Nazi state also played a part in the way the Holocaust developed. The fact that different death camps used different means of gassing Jews – Zyklon B at Auschwitz, carbon monoxide from engines at Treblinka and gas vans at Chełmno – demonstrates the extent to which the Nazi system encouraged subordinates to devise their own way of best fulfilling the overall vision.
Dora: In the Hell of the Concentration Camp Where the Nazi Scientists Prepared for the Conquest of Space (Michel and Nucera)
I want to conclude with a few words about why I thought it appropriate to subtitle this work ‘a new history’, together with some reflections on the challenges of writing about the Holocaust. As anyone who has just read this book will appreciate, this is not a straightforward history to explain. Surprisingly perhaps, it is not made easier by the word ‘Holocaust’ – a word which originally meant ‘burnt offering’ or ‘sacrifice’ and only came to be associated in the popular consciousness with the extermination of the Jews relatively recently.
And now they were in number one crematorium. Once again I was struck by the horrible irony of the situation. I, a Jewish doctor, had to examine them with exact clinical methods before they died, and then perform the dissection on their still warm bodies. So shaken was I by the situation, about which I was powerless to do anything at all, that I suddenly felt myself spinning close to the edge of madness. By whose will had such evil, such a succession of horrors been made to descend upon our wretched people? Could this be the will of God? No; I could not believe it.
These were the circumstances in which they submitted to the daily roll calls and musters, which lasted several hours. When they fainted and were rudely revived with a bucket of cold water, their eyes invariably turned towards the clouds of smoke that covered the KZ, or towards the flames belching from the crematorium stacks. These two signs, smoke and flames, reminded them, day and night, that they were living at the gate to the other world.
We jumped to the ground, then turned to take our wives and children in our arms and help them down, for the level of the cars was over four and a half feet from the ground. The guards had us line up along the tracks. Before us stood a young SS officer, impeccable in his uniform, a gold rosette gracing his lapel, his boots smartly polished. Though unfamiliar with the various SS ranks, I surmised from his arm band that he was a doctor. Later I learned that he was the head of the SS group, that his name was Dr. Mengele, and that he was chief physician of the Auschwitz concentration camp. As the “medical selector” for the camp, he was present at the arrival of every train.
As already seen in chapter 2, a preoccupation with secrecy had ultimately led to name changes—Karlshagen replacing Peenemünde, for instance. Beginning in August 1943 the practice of coding became systematic, and it is necessary to take a closer look at this issue in order to avoid confusions and recognize the synonyms. “Dora” designated the Kommando that was sent to the Mittelwerk factory at Kohnstein and later to the corresponding camp. Though its usage became generalized, the name was not official at first. “Laura” referred to the Kommando working in Lehesten. Dora and Laura depended on Buchenwald.
The place where Aletrino’s third wife, Bertha Haase, died remains unknown, but she did not survive the Holocaust.
For many years virtually only the survivors wrote about the Nazi concentration camps; along with the Allied photographic reports and the accounts of the major camp trials from 1945 to 1947, they shaped the public perception of the camp system. (In the course of this, not surprisingly, different perceptions emerged in various countries, and these ideas persist.) Toward the end of the 1940s several hundred, if not thousands, of memoirs of surviving camp inmates appeared. Many were both memoirs and scientific studies. Among the most important of these, the publications of Eugen Kogon, David Rousset, and Christopher Burney still shape the public image of concentration camps that is held in many countries.3 André Sellier is part of this tradition because his book unites memoir with historical analysis.
Tadeusz found conditions in the barracks at Mauthausen even worse than those he had endured in the main camp at Auschwitz. Not only were there no spare beds to sleep on, but ‘space was very limited and about sixty of us had to stand during the night. They could lie down [only] if someone left his place to go to the toilet, and on his return he would join the standing.’ Next morning they were ordered to assemble in the roll-call square. ‘It was a very hot day and prisoners were reluctant to stand in lines for hours because those who fell down as a result of the heat were finished off. I was standing in the first line. Those too slow to form the lines were beaten with a truncheon. The beating gained such impetus that they started hitting those who did form the lines and I was suddenly hit on the back of my head. I fell down. Luckily the strike was not too strong and nothing happened to me, but at that very moment I remembered the Polish prisoner [in Auschwitz] who advised me not to stand in the most exposed sides of the prisoners’ lines and not to let them kill me.’21
Buchenwald and Dora: Two Different Worlds
Notwithstanding the immense brutality of the Croat Ustaše, the SS could never implement the Final Solution as they wished in Croatia. The fundamental problem for the Nazis, as we have already seen, was the relationship between a number of Croat leaders and individual Jews. As the German police attaché to Croatia, SS Obersturmbannführer (Lieutenant Colonel) Helm, put it in a report April 1944, ‘to a great extent the Croatian leadership is related to Jews by marriage.’ The ability of the Croatian leadership to declare individual Jews ‘Honorary Aryans’ meant that it was impossible ever to declare the ‘Jewish question’ in Croatia entirely ‘settled’. As long as Croatia remained an ally, there was little that the Nazis could easily do about this other than, as SS Obersturmbannführer Helm suggested, attempt to ‘persuade’ the Croatian government to ‘eliminate itself those Jews who are still in public positions’ and ‘apply a more severe standard in granting the rights of Honorary Aryans’.57
Only at the very beginning of 1944 was the tunnel factory in a position to deliver its first V2 for trials at Blizna. And only in March–April was the factory itself more or less completed. It was then and only then, when construction of the camp was finished, that the last Kommandos were able to leave the tunnel dormitories for real blocks outside. The transports from Buchenwald to Dora in March provided the requisite workforce that did not sleep in the tunnel.
From the Nazis’ perspective, extending the work of the gas van to fulfil the task Greiser now required created several challenges. The first was obvious – a question of capacity. Lange had only one gas van, a large truck with the words ‘Kaiser’s Kaffee-Geschäft’ (Kaiser’s Coffee Company) emblazoned on the side. This was the same van that had driven around Poland for nearly two years killing the disabled. So, to increase the number of people Chełmno could murder, Lange was promised several more gas vans.11 They would finally arrive and be operational at the camp early in 1942. These vehicles, unlike the first van, which used bottled carbon monoxide to gas those trapped inside, murdered by directing the carbon monoxide from the exhaust gases of the engine into the rear compartment. This development in the method of murder used by the gas vans mimicked the evolution of the fixed gas chambers, which had also moved from bottled carbon monoxide to exhaust gas.
42. Starting in spring 1944, Allied reconnaissance flights took photos of Auschwitz. This photograph is of Auschwitz Birkenau during the Hungarian deportation action.
When the Mémorial was published in 1949, the foreword began as follows: “In anticipation of the pilgrimage we all want to make some day to Dora and Ellrich . . .” In April 1950, pilgrimages began to Buchenwald, and a French group, which Jean-Pierre Couture5 was part of, was authorized to travel by bus to Dora, to the crematorium, and to Nordhausen and the Boelcke Kaserne necropolis.
In fact, the vast majority of Dora prisoners had no knowledge of Buchenwald beyond the quarantine, often accompanied with latrine and quarry duty, and hence held a poor opinion of daily life in the camp. Those who came from Buchenwald to Dora at the end of 1944, after a more or less long stay interrupted by the destruction of the factories in August, were in the best position to compare the two camps.
The prisoners who had been evacuated by the Red Cross, women from Ravensbrück and men from Blankenburg, went home from Sweden. Jews deported from France, Belgium, and the Netherlands were repatriated along with non-Jews. The same was true for Spanish Republican refugees in France, who were prisoners in the large camps such as Mauthausen, Buchenwald, and Sachsenhausen.
Certain among them were staunch activists whose convictions were not dulled by their deportation. The major political vicissitudes of the postwar period, particularly in a country like France, later led to cleavages that culminated in schisms, as for instance in the trade union movement. But on closer inspection the consequences are not always very clear, particularly with regard to the French from Buchenwald.
For three weeks I visited C Camp every day. One day what I was afraid would happen actually came to pass. I had already come to the conclusion, after the liquidation of the Czech and Gypsy Camps, that extermination was merely a matter of chronological order. Sooner or later the time came for all those who spent their days of misery within the confines of Auschwitz’s barbed wire barriers.
Although they were Slavs, the Czechs were not treated like the Poles and the Russians. There were no Czech prisoners of war, since there had been no war against them. The Czechs had been conscripted for compulsory labor and there were Czechs among the free workers who became the “Wifos” of the Dora Tunnel. In some ways their discipline and taste for organization were surprising in a concentration camp world, and they were rewarded for it by earning a certain amount of esteem. As we saw earlier, Litomisky explained with pride how he had overseen the distribution of food in a tunnel block, and Benès mocked so-called German organization in laying the tracks for tunnel B.
23 US Holocaust Museum figures, http://www.ushmm.org/.
Before the end of the morning, however, I had occasion to verify the truth of his statement. A train of five box cars bearing 500 sick and debilitated prisoners who thought they were being transferred to a rest camp stopped on the rails running between number one and two crematoriums. They were met by an SS political commission, who conversed at some length with the commandant and the SS guards accompanying the convoy. At last, before the gates of death, the train was turned round, and its occupants sent to the F camp hospital barracks.
A solid group formed around Charles Sadron, the “Old Man” (he was born in 1902), including Guy Boisot, René Bordet, Francis Finelli, André Fortané, Pierre Gáti, André Gérard, Marcel Gouju, Bernard Gross, Pierre Hémery, Raymond de Miribel, Yvon Navet, André Sellier, and René Souquet. With the exception of Hémery and Miribel, who were “21,000”s, they all arrived at Buchenwald by the first two trains in January 1944 and were more or less quickly assigned to the Ko Scherer in Hall 28. Mathieu Anfriani, Michel Bedel, Jean Guyon des Diguères, and René Fourquet, a “14,000” who had gone through Peenemünde, were in the vicinity.
Gas chambers were constructed behind the shower blocks at Majdanek. No other camp had the gas chambers so close to the genuine showers used by arriving Jews who had passed the initial selection. The position of the gas chambers meant that, just as with the gassings at the crematorium in the main camp at Auschwitz, the SS had difficulty in keeping the killings secret, and – as at Auschwitz – the SS had to rev motor engines at Majdanek next to the gas chambers in order to drown out the screams of those trapped inside.38
Hans Beimler, a German Communist, published another early eyewitness account of the camp in 1933. He entitled his book Im Mörderlager Dachau (In the Murder Camp Dachau).53 But while Beimler was justified in calling Dachau a ‘murder’ camp, given that a small number of prisoners were killed there during this period, these concentration camps should not be confused with the later extermination camps – like Treblinka – whose only function was to kill. Appalling as the regime was at Dachau before the war, the majority of those who were sent to the camp at this time survived the experience.
Until 1990 there was an “international committee” for Buchenwald-Dora but no committee for Dora per se. Its creation in the context of Germany’s new situation resulted from an initiative taken in the summer of 1990 by the representatives of the former French and Belgian deportees, supported by their Dutch and Czech fellow prisoners. The constitutive meeting was held in Paris on October 18, and Jacques Brun, its founder, was placed in charge of the legal registration of its statutes in France. It was a nonprofit organization conforming to the French law of 1901 regarding associations with international objectives. It was officially registered under the name “European Dora, Ellrich, Harzungen and Ko Committee ‘For Memory’ ” (“Comité européen de Dora, Ellrich, Harzungen et Ko ‘Pour la mémoire’ ”).5 Since then, the new committee and the International Buchenwald-Dora Committee have coordinated their activities without problems.
Hitler authorized his own doctor, Karl Brandt, to investigate the case and, if he found that the father’s description of his son’s condition was accurate, to arrange the child’s murder. Brandt did as he was asked and subsequently organized the killing. Recent research has shown that the murder was carried out towards the end of July 1939.37 That is several months later than had previously been thought, and offers further evidence that Hitler believed the forthcoming war would provide useful cover for drastic action against the disabled. He was fulfilling the prophecy he had made to Gerhard Wagner, Leader of the Reich Doctors, back in 1935, that he would ‘radically solve’ the ‘problem’ of the mentally ill in the event of a future conflict.38
Scarcely an hour later another train arrived, bearing 500 Slovakian Jews: a group of old people, women, and young children. They got out of the cars. I watched carefully for what would follow. Lineup and selection were the standard order of procedure on the Jewish ramp. But what I now witnessed was completely out of keeping with practice. The weary travelers took their heavy luggage with them when they got down and without exception moved off to the right in the direction of D Camp. Mothers pushed baby carriages before them, and the young helped the aged to walk. My immediate reaction was one of enthusiasm. There could be no doubt about it: the crematorium gates had remained closed before the convoys sent to their death.
Perla Frankel-Shalev and her daughter, Miriam Don, described the Frankel family’s escape in Memoir: a true story of a family’s escape, privately published in Israel in 2006. ‘In addition to all the people who remained in Europe when the Nazis invaded, there were those who managed to escape and their stories as survivors are of equal importance to the collective memory of the Holocaust,’ they wrote in the introduction. This does not alter the fact that their approach to the facts is quite careless. They call the Polish ambassador Rommel instead of Romer, and joke about him having the same name as the German general.
One problem he faced was the distribution of raw materials and construction-related materials. The other problem had to do with the workforce, which was insufficient. Todt, like Speer after him, was unable to impose his point of view as to the need for total mobilization—of women in particular—as was by then the case in Great Britain.6 Fritz Sauckel, Gauleiter of Thuringia and one of Hitler’s old companions, did his best to overcome these difficulties by recruiting workers—both men and women—in the Ukraine and other occupied territories of the Soviet Union. Aside from these Ostarbeiter, other more or less forced workers were brought from Italy, France, Belgium, and the Netherlands. In France, the government itself established the STO in February 1943. But thought was also given to making use of the concentration camp labor force. What went on in Peenemünde in 1943 is entirely significant for the combining of these two sources of labor.
The Mittelbau camps, even in their alternating social permutations, were hardly comparable to the camps of the prewar era. That is especially clear in the enlargement of the recruitment pool of guard personnel. The SS, under Eicke’s leadership, had succeeded in 1933–1934 in annexing the concentration camps to its sphere of authority. But by spring 1944, because of pressing demands for personnel, ever more armed forces men assumed guard duties, especially in the satellite camps. Although the camps’ authority remained to the end of the war in the hands of long-serving (altgediente) SS members, in satellites such as Mittelbau camp Harzungen, armed forces officers functioned as camp leaders. This put them in the exposed position of responsibility for the living conditions of the inmates. This development showed that SS control in matters of personnel also began to fracture. Living conditions in camps administered and/or guarded by the armed forces were in most cases no better than in camps under SS supervision, whose staff had been trained according to the “Dachau Model.” Clearly the violence discharged in the last months of war did not stand in need of an SS annihilation program.
THE VISION OF ROUSSET AND KOGON. At the beginning of May 1945, David Rousset was in Wöbbelin, the camp that had just been liberated by the Americans under the conditions mentioned in chapter 21. Suffering from pulmonary congestion and typhus, he managed to have himself repatriated quickly.30 He had gone from 190 to 104 pounds, and when he got to Paris, Maurice Nadeau found him unrecognizable. He went to spend time recovering at Saint-Jean-de-Monts with his wife Sue, and his memory came back to him as he regained his health. In three weeks he dictated L’Univers concentrationnaire (The Concentration Camp World) to Sue, which was published in the Revue internationale, then published in mid-1946 and awarded the Renaudot Prize. His next book, Les Jours de notre mort (The Days of Our Death), demanded more research work and writing effort. It appeared in 1947. Immediately upon their publication, both books became classics on the Nazi concentration camps.
23. The evacuation convoys from the Auschwitz and Gross Rosen camps arrived at Dora with numerous corpses of prisoners who had not withstood the cold and hunger. The crematorium’s capacity was not adequate, and the bodies were burned on pyres set up in the camp. This drawing done by La Pintière upon his return bears witness to this appalling spectacle.
I had met Zingeris the day before, in the company of Edith and Rob Zwartendijk: an emotional man, born before the war. His mother had been one of the very few Lithuanian Jews to survive the conflict. She came from Kaunas, was eighteen years old when the war broke out, was interned in the Ninth Fort, and, a year later, was transferred to Stutthof, the first Nazi concentration camp outside Germany. She always had a smile on her face, and was punished for it in Stutthof by the SS guards, who felt any Jewish woman in the camp should be filled with despair. After all, they don’t smile on death row, do they? Her indestructible optimism got her through her ordeal in the camp, but when she returned to Kaunas she was arrested by the NKVD. The Soviet agents argued that, since no Jews had come out of the camps alive, she must be a German spy. Zingeris told the whole story to me, Rob, and Edith, whose hands he held the whole time because his mother had undoubtedly gone to school with her in Kaunas. This was the man who took responsibility for having all the documents sent to me, and I had the fullest confidence he would do so.
18 Jean Ancel, The History of the Holocaust in Romania, Yad Vashem, 2011, p. 215. Protocol of the talk between Hitler and Antonescu in Munich, in Documents on German Foreign Policy, vol. 12, doc. 614, p. 1006.
There was another category of Kapos: those who directed the Kommandos, the work teams in the camp or those working in companies. These Kommandos were of various sizes and also more or less stable. The Kapos were assisted by a highly variable number of Vorarbeiter, who could loosely be described as foremen. Certain Kommandos had a Schreiber. In concentration camp jargon, the term Kommando had a very wide range of meanings. It could refer to a small group of prisoners in charge of some temporary duty in a camp, or all the prisoners of Ohrdruf, considered as a Kommando dependent on Buchenwald, in turn broken down into Kommandos of various sizes. The context alone makes it possible to know.
45 Tom Segev, Soldiers of Evil: The Commandants of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Diamond Books, 2000, p. 28.
Before leaving the crematorium he had already informed me of his last wishes.
ARTHUR RUDOLPH. Engineer, operations director for the Mittelwerk limited company. Born 1906. Entered Nazi Party in 1931. Hired by the Army Weapons Office, 1934. Entered into collaboration with Wernher von Braun at Peenemünde, 1937. By June 1944, responsible for assembly and quality control of V-2 rockets as well as the employment of civilian and concentration camp laborers. In 1945 taken to the United States along with von Braun and other rocket specialists, where he eventually occupied senior positions in the space program. Questioned by U.S. Department of Justice, 1982–1983; left the United States voluntarily, 1984, rather than face a deportation hearing. Reissued German citizenship. Died 1995 in Hamburg.
It was about one o’clock in the morning. The last SS had left the camp. He closed the iron gates and cut off the lights from the main switchboard, which was located near the entrance. The enormous cemetery of European Judaism, Birkenau, sank into darkness. My eyes lingered for a long while on the barbed wires of the camp and the rows of barracks that stood out against the night. Farewell, cemetery of millions, cemetery without a single grave!
47. The Nazi doctor Fritz Klein stands on top of a pile of the dead from Bergen Belsen concentration camp. Klein was forced to help bury the dead by British forces after the liberation of the camp.
Quite different was the reaction of those who did away with business as usual and would not join the SS in experimentation or extermination. Some of those who reported on the experience, desperately asked the question: How was it possible that people denied the existence of the gas chambers when all day long they saw the crematoria burning and smelled the odor of burning flesh? How come they preferred not to believe in the extermination just to prevent themselves from fighting for their very own lives? For example, Lengyel (in Five Chimneys, the story of Auschwitz, Chicago: Ziff Davis, 1947) reports that although she and her fellow prisoners lived just a few hundred yards from the crematoria and the gas chambers and knew what they were all about, yet after months most prisoners denied knowledge of them. German civilians denied the gas chambers too, but the same denial in them did not have the same meaning. Civilians who faced facts and rebelled, invited death. Prisoners at Auschwitz were already doomed. Rebellion could only have saved either the life they were going to lose anyway, or the lives of others. When Lengyel and many other prisoners were selected to be sent to the gas chambers, they did not try to break away, as she successfully did. Worse, the first time she tried it, some of the fellow prisoners selected with her for the gas chambers called the supervisors, telling them that Lengyel was trying to get away. Lengyel offers no explanation except that they begrudged anyone who might save himself from the common fate, because they lacked enough courage to risk action themselves. I believe they did it because they had given up their will to live, had permitted their death tendencies to flood them. As a result they now identified more closely with the SS who were devoting themselves to executing destructive tendencies, than to those fellow prisoners who still held a grip on life and hence managed to escape death.
The history of the Sonderkommando revolt at Auschwitz in October 1944 demonstrates the injustice of such accusations. The Sonderkommandos did not go like ‘sheep’ to the slaughter. They fought back and died as a consequence. They lost their lives because effective resistance in Auschwitz was almost impossible. Auschwitz lasted as an institution for four and a half years and in that time out of the more than 1 million people sent there, about 800 attempted to escape. But fewer than 150 of them managed to get away from the area and an unknown number of these successful escapees were subsequently killed in the war.15 It was thus not so much lack of courage that prevented the mass of inmates from escaping as lack of opportunity.
Only one other previous evacuation was on a similar scale: that of the Auschwitz concentration camp. After an initial “death march,” however, the prisoners had been transported by train to other camps. This time it was no longer possible to form trains, and there were no longer any camps able to receive the prisoners.
Himmler also said in his memo that the idea of ‘physically exterminating a people’ was ‘fundamentally unGerman and impossible’ – a view that he would change once the Holocaust began. But even though he would not, for the moment, countenance mass murder, his proposal for the Jews was still radical. ‘I hope’, he said, ‘to see the term “Jew” completely eliminated through the possibility of a large-scale emigration of all Jews to Africa or to some colony.’ He obviously had in mind something like the Madagascar plan which, as we have seen, the Poles themselves had been seriously considering just before the war. It was a striking departure from the policy expressed by Heydrich in the autumn of 1939, which was one of deporting the Jews to the eastern part of the new German Empire.
Treblinka and Sobibór ceased to operate as death camps around the same time. Both were now dismantled and an attempt was made to eliminate all traces of the crime. These camps – along with Bełżec, the first Operation Reinhard fixed-killing installation – had always been seen by the Nazis as transitory places, and since by now there were hardly any Jews left alive in the General Government, and Auschwitz had more than adequate killing capacity for Jews from western Europe, there was no need for them to exist. Bełżec had ceased to kill people in large numbers by December 1942 and was fully dismantled by the summer of 1943. As for Treblinka, the last transport arrived in August 1943, two weeks after the revolt, and the camp was subsequently destroyed during the autumn. Sobibór was the final Reinhard death camp to be dismantled. And since the prisoners who had not managed to escape had been killed the day after the revolt, another Sonderkommando unit was sent to take the camp apart. After they had completed their task, they too were murdered.
The fact that I had found my wife and child made sensational news at the crematorium. I took warm clothing, linen and stockings from the clothing department, toothbrushes, nail cutters, penknives and combs from the toilet article section. From the pharmacy I got a stock of vitamin pills, ointment for their sores, and anything else I thought might be useful. I got a sizable quantity, much more than was necessary for my wife and daughter. Besides, I filled my sack with blocks of sugar, butter, jam and bread in quantities large enough to be able to distribute them to the other prisoners. So it was that I left for the C Camp with my sack bulging. But all good things must come to an end.
In accordance with orders received I returned the corpses to the prisoners whose duty it was to burn them. They performed their job without delay. I had to keep any organs of possible scientific interest, so that Dr. Mengele could examine them. Those which might interest the Anthropological Institute at Berlin-Dahlem were preserved in alcohol. These parts were specially packed to be sent through the mails. Stamped “War Material—Urgent,” they were given top priority in transit. In the course of my work at the crematorium I dispatched an impressive number of such packages. I received, in reply, either precise scientific observations or instructions. In order to classify this correspondence I had to set up special files. The directors of the Berlin-Dahlem Institute always warmly thanked Dr. Mengele for this rare and precious material.
The ethnic makeup of Dora’s original population, to a large extent due to the political circumstances of the moment, is out of keeping with the usual makeup of large German camps. Germans from Buchenwald, a large majority of whom were Greens, were sent to supervise this rarely German-speaking population. The Reds, having control of the Arbeitsstatistik, thus had the chance to get rid of a certain number of them—and not necessarily the most friendly ones. To fill out the numbers, prisoners were brought in from other camps, particularly from Auschwitz. In the first weeks there were several convoys of Poles from Buchenwald to Dora. Czechs also arrived, who, according to available testimony, seem to have already passed through Auschwitz. It was in this way that, in a few months, a diverse population of prisoners came together, the majority of them novices in the universe of the concentration camps, and no doubt for this reason all the more liable to suffer from the conditions that were to be imposed on them.
All this brutality did not mean, however, that the invasion of Poland marks the beginning of the Holocaust as we know it. Though several thousand Jews were murdered in the early months of the occupation, Hitler and the Nazi leadership were also targeting the ‘leadership class’ within Poland at the same time, and the overarching policy as regards the Jews remained the same as before – persecution and expulsion. But while the outbreak of war appeared to have closed one possible avenue for removing the Jews – the large-scale emigration of the Jews to countries not under German control – it had simultaneously opened another – the possibility of expelling Jews to the furthest reaches of the new Nazi empire. In late September Heydrich said Hitler had approved the idea of deporting the Jews to the east, and as an initial measure Polish Jews were to be concentrated in cities in order to make them easier to control.12
The whole operation was conducted in great secrecy. The general public was never supposed to find out what was happening to children inside these special units. But within the walls of the hospital, it was difficult to hide the evidence of the crime. During the war, Paul Eggert – assessed as a ‘delinquent’ – was sent to Aplerbeck, one of the children’s hospitals that also served as a killing centre. He remembers how every few weeks a nurse would come into the dining room during supper and select children. Next morning they were taken to the doctor’s consulting room – supposedly they were to be immunized against diphtheria or scarlet fever. But Paul noticed that these children ‘never came back’ from their visit to the consulting room. He remembers that on occasion the selected children would hold on to the older boys in an attempt not to be taken away, but ‘the doctor or the nurse would say, “Come now”, or something [like that].’ Long after the war Paul recalled ‘the screams’ and the terrified backward ‘glances’ from the children as they were led away to be killed. It was ‘hopeless’, he says, ‘it was terrible.’39
However, the Nazis did not seem to object to the atrocities committed by the Ustaše against the Jews. During 1942 the majority of the 40,000 Jews in Croatia were imprisoned in concentration camps within the country – most in the infamous camp at Jasenovac. The Germans now asked the Croatians to deport the surviving Jews and on 13 August the first transport left for Auschwitz.
More broadly, what were the reasons the Nazis decided to exterminate an entire group of people? Why did they take millions of men, women and children and gas them, shoot them, starve them, beat them to death – kill them by whatever means possible? What was the place of this genocide amid the catalogue of other horrors that the Nazis were responsible for?
Crematorium
Those two transports notwithstanding, Jews remained a minority in the Mittelbau camps until January 1945; in most of these camps there had been no Jews at all. All that changed in January 1945, when in the course of the abandonment of the forced-labor and concentration camps in the East, several thousand Jews were “evacuated” to Mittelbau, including more than a thousand inmates from Czestochowa.38 In camp Harzungen at the beginning of April 1945, the number of Jews climbed to 10 percent of the inmates,39 and that despite a mortality rate among Auschwitz and Gross-Rosen evacuees that exceeded the rate in the early phase of Dora. Most of the terribly weakened inmates from Auschwitz and Gross-Rosen were taken to the Boelcke Barracks. One may assume that in this camp the percentage of Jews was much greater than in Harzungen.
I went for a short walk before nightfall. The weather was hardly conducive, but the cold wind was invigorating, soothing my tired nerves. I made several turns around the courtyard; my steps took me past the stairway leading down into the gas chambers. I paused there for a few seconds, remembering that today was All Saints’ Day. A deadly silence brooded over Auschwitz. The cold concrete steps descended and dissolved into darkness. These same steps where four million people, guilty of no crime, had bade life good-bye and descended to their death, knowing that even in death their tormented bodies would not be granted the sanctuary of a grave. Standing there alone, on the top step of this, their last brief voyage on earth, I felt it my duty to pause and think of them for a moment with heartfelt compassion, in the name of their relatives and friends who, perhaps happy and well, were still alive somewhere in the world.
IN NUMBER ONE CREMATORIUM’S GAS chamber 3,000 dead were piled up. The Sonderkommando had already begun to untangle the lattice of flesh. The noise of the elevators and the sound of their clanging doors reached my room. The work moved ahead double-time. The gas chambers had to be cleared, for the arrival of a new convoy had been announced.
17. Paul Le Goupil, “Mémorial des Français déportés au camp de Langenstein-Zwieberge,” Buchenwald Kommando, 1996.
MY NEXT VISIT TOOK ME TO NUMBER two crematorium, which was separated from number one by a path through some fields and by the Jewish unloading platform along the railroad tracks. It was built according to the same plans as number one. The only difference I noticed was that the space corresponding to the dissection room in number one was here used as a gold foundry. Otherwise the layout of the undressing room, the gas chamber, the incineration room and the living quarters of the SS and the Sonderkommando was exactly the same.
3 Buchenwald and the Concentration Camp System in 1943
What could one do with a young girl in the crematorium’s Sonderkommando? I knew the past history of the place: no one had ever come out of here alive, either from the convoys or from the Sonderkommando.
PIERRE GABRION. “With another young Frenchman my age—the poor guy never recovered from it, he died in Nordhausen—we were picked out to work on the infamous pyres, as the crematorium could no longer keep up with the excessive supply of dead. We were therefore employed to stoke the fire—if I may say—with the bodies.
McGovern’s account begins with the 1943 discoveries that led to the bombing of Peenemünde and ended with the launch of the Saturn rocket in 1964. The French edition of the book is 215 pages long. The only passage on Dora is the following, on page 71: “The handling work was reserved for non-Germans. Kammler had assigned 6,000 slave laborers to the Mittelwerke, taken from the neighboring concentration camps of Nordhausen and Dora, as well as Buchenwald, some thirty-five miles away.”11 Not only is it very little, but the information itself is extraordinarily mediocre. There would be further instances of such mediocrity in American publishing.
The trouble was that Chamberlain failed to understand that Hitler was not at heart a conventional statesman who, like all sensible political leaders, would be loath to risk military conflict. Ernst von Weizsäcker, a German diplomat, tried to explain the reality of the situation to the British ambassador to Berlin, Sir Nevile Henderson: ‘I have said to Henderson once again that this is not a game of chess but a rising sea. One cannot make the same kind of assumptions as in normal times and with normal people.’69 Weizsäcker’s metaphor of the ‘rising sea’ is not just striking but accurate – at least as far as the German Jews were concerned, for they were about to be engulfed.
While Clauberg experimented with the use of injections, his colleague Dr Schumann gave his subjects massive doses of radiation. Silvia Veselá recalls that ‘the impact of X-ray intensity on [the] small intestine was tested on them. It was more than awful. Those women were throwing up all the time. It was really terrible.’7 During her time in Auschwitz, Silvia confesses that she became emotionally numbed to suffering: ‘If you are beaten too hard, after a while you feel nothing. Do you know that feeling? No, you don’t, because you haven’t experienced such a treatment. But as I said before: if you are beaten too hard, after a while you feel nothing, because you are apathetic. That was the only rescue … To become apathetic.’8 She herself was forced to take part in one of Clauberg’s medical trials. ‘I was ill and they carried out some experiments on me … Unfortunately, after the war when I got married, in spite of those experiments I got pregnant. I had to undertake a very loathsome abortion. Doctors told me, “That’s enough! Don’t dare to be pregnant any more.” ’9
The initiative came from Dora-Ellrich, which in the late 1980s set up a historical commission. Its objective was to assemble the greatest number of testimonies, whether in published form, simply put together by their respective authors for distribution among friends and family members, or even just left in manuscript form. A pamphlet brought out in 1989 made it possible to establish an initial schema, which I made use of when I embarked on a study of the history of Dora, following historical research of another nature. From that point on, the various contacts I established with a variety of former prisoners from Dora-Ellrich, Buchenwald-Dora, and the corresponding Belgian association completed my information and enabled me to understand what had taken place in those places I had not experienced personally.
Henryk Mandelbaum remembers that, despite the efforts of the SS to keep an atmosphere of calm as the Jews were ushered into the gas chamber, sometimes people ‘started to sense something was wrong. There were too many people and some wanted to withdraw, but the SS men would hit them on the head with sticks and blood was flowing. So there was no chance of withdrawing or getting out, but by force they would be pushed into the gas chambers. When it was full they would lock the door – the doors were hermetic like in refrigerators.’ He recalls that behind every transport ‘there was an ambulance with a red cross [on it]’ and, in a cynical act, ‘in that red cross ambulance they [the SS] had Zyklon B gas [crystals].’ Once the crystals had been thrown into the gas chamber, ‘the gassing lasted about twenty minutes to half an hour. After the gassing, after the twenty or thirty minutes, we opened the doors. You could see how these people died – standing. Their heads were to the left or to the right, to the front, to the back. Some vomited or had hemorrhaged, and they would shit with loose bowels. Before the burning we had to cut their hair and pull out the gold teeth. And also had to look whether people kept anything in their nostrils, or valuables in the mouth – women in their vaginas.’22
I looked around for my companions. Fischer, the lab assistant, was missing. I had not seen him since Plesow. Then he had been lying in the snow, his strength completely spent. From his contracted facial expression, I had suspected that his end was near. He was fifty-five and had spent five years in the KZ, so it was not surprising that his organism had been unequal to the long walk and paralyzing cold. Dr. Korner was in pretty good shape, but Dr. Gorog, on the other hand, was in a critical condition. His mental troubles had steadily worsened, and even in the days of the crematorium keeping his condition a secret had been a source of constant worry to me. I had done all I could to make sure he never ran into Dr. Mengele. Mussfeld had also been dangerous. If either one had noticed his condition, his life would not have been worth a penny.
The ministry proposed to select a reliable journalist from a reputable newspaper, to whom Zwartendijk could explain how he had ‘saved a large number of Jews from the gas chambers’, and insisted that the facts stated in the interview must correspond to the information that Zwartendijk had provided in his letter. The officials wanted to keep control of the story.
Langbein (Hermann), Hommes et Femmes à Auschwitz (Paris: Fayard, 1975).
Hitler didn’t just want to kill disabled children, he also wanted to murder disabled adults. In June or July 1939 – the exact date isn’t known – he asked Dr Leonardo Conti, the state secretary for health, to widen the ‘euthanasia’ scheme. Philipp Bouhler, of the Chancellery of the Führer, wasn’t happy about Conti’s planned role, as his department was already involved with the children’s euthanasia operation. An expert in internal Nazi politics, Bouhler quickly managed to manoeuvre Conti out of the way and control both schemes.40
15 Aristotle Kallis, Genocide and Fascism: The Eliminationist Drive in Fascist Europe, Routledge, 2009, p. 55, words of Albert Krantzius, at the start of the sixteenth century.
As well as these two installations under construction in Poland, there is also evidence that discussions were held at the same time about the possibility of building other fixed killing factories in Riga and Mogilev in the occupied Soviet Union.102 Himmler visited Mogilev in Belarus in October, and the following month a large order was placed with Topf and Söhne to construct a massive cremation installation at Mogilev with thirty-two incinerator chambers.103 It is possible that this huge crematorium – which was never ultimately built – would have been the centrepiece of a camp which combined the functions of a murder facility with a more conventional concentration camp.104 Clearly a step change in the way the Nazis were approaching the ‘Jewish question’ was under way.
You might ask, legitimately enough: if I have issues with the word why have I titled this book ‘The Holocaust’? In part it is simply to acknowledge that this is what the crime is now called and trying to call it something else would not be helpful for the reader. But, more significantly, I think the word is appropriate here because it reflects the fact that the extermination of the Jews was a crime of singular horror in the history of the human race.
On June 6 a transport from Buchenwald brought French prisoners from the May 12 convoy from Compiègne—including Maxime Cottet and Albert Bannes—to Dora. They were dispatched between Harzungen and Ellrich. Other deportees from the same convoy left the same day for Wieda, as was seen in the preceding chapter. At the same time the Belgian deportees from the convoys of May 12 and 23, who arrived in large numbers, were also spread out for the most part between Harzungen and Ellrich. Lastly, on June 14 the transport coming from Buchenwald was above all made up of Russians and Poles.
24 Yahil, Holocaust, p. 92.
9 David Cesarani, Final Solution: The Fate of the Jews 1933–49, Macmillan, 2016, p. 362.
LOCATIONS OF THE WORK SITES. One finds a certain number of underground installations in the foothill region in the north of the Harz Mountains, especially to the east of Helmstedt. These correspond to the code A 3, because they had to do with transforming old mines. They were dependent on Porta Westfalica, where the A 2 work site was also to be found. The corresponding Kommandos, created by Buchenwald, were subsequently linked to Neuengamme.
The above-mentioned convoy set off toward the east and took two days to arrive in Dresden via Leipzig on April 9, then two more days to arrive in Pilsen via Aussig on the 11th. The column was initially instructed to go to the Flossenbürg camp, but after the long detour it was assigned a new destination: Dachau. The train slowed down and took eight days, from April 11 to 19, to go through Bavaria to Bayerish-Eisenstein, arriving in Nammering north of Passau, where the convoy stopped until April 24. It set out again with a new locomotive, went through Passau, and finally arrived at Dachau during the night of April 27 to 28. It had taken twenty days to go from Buchenwald to Dachau, a distance of 187 miles as the crow flies. The thirteen-day train route of the Gandersheim convoy from Bitterfeld to Dachau was the quickest journey, but it came after ten days of forced march. The results were the same. Of the 5,080 prisoners who left Weimar, there were 816 survivors, many of them ill, upon arrival at Dachau. Of the 450 prisoners who left Gandersheim there were 122 survivors, as the sick prisoners had been killed prior to departure.
Another reason for the astonishing scale of the murders at Treblinka in the summer of 1942 was not technical, but personal – the ambition of thirty-one-year-old Dr Irmfried Eberl, the commandant of Treblinka and the only medical doctor ever to run an extermination camp. Dr Eberl has already featured in this history, when he was the director of the euthanasia killing centre at Brandenburg. He thus had plenty of experience in mass murder before starting work at Treblinka. And just as he showed every sign of liking his work at Brandenburg, so he appeared to relish the opportunity to murder Jews. In June 1942, while preparing the extermination camp for the arrival of the first transport from Warsaw, he wrote to his wife, Ruth, that his life was ‘very busy’ and that he ‘enjoyed it’.18 In another letter to her at the end of July, shortly after the Jews had started arriving, he said: ‘I know that I haven’t written much lately, but I couldn’t help that, as the last “Warsaw weeks” have gone by in an unimaginable rush.’ He said that even if the day had ‘a hundred hours’ it would not be ‘quite enough’ for him to complete his work, and that in the pursuit of his duties he had managed to gain ‘nerves of steel’. He was also, he claimed, able to get his staff to ‘go along’ with him and he was ‘glad and proud of this achievement’.19
At Bełżec, Stangl became reacquainted with Christian Wirth, whom he had known – and disliked – from the euthanasia actions. Wirth was now Stangl’s boss, and when he had visited Stangl during the construction of Sobibór he had been dissatisfied with the way the work was progressing. Stangl learnt that Wirth had arrived, ‘looked around the gas chambers on which they were still working and said, “Right, we’ll try it out right now with those twenty-five work-Jews: get them up here” ’. Wirth ordered the Jews pushed into the gas chamber and murdered. According to one of Stangl’s colleagues, ‘Wirth behaved like a lunatic, hit out at his own staff with his whip to drive them on. And then he was livid because the doors hadn’t worked properly.’59
FRANZ HÖSSLER. Born 1916. SS member from early 1933 and at the end was Obersturmführer; had a long career in camp administration. He trained first at Dachau in summer 1933. In June 1940 transferred to Auschwitz; by 1941 was on temporary assignments in the Waffen-SS. After his return to Dachau became commander of Auschwitz I and, as of February 1945, commander of Dora. Finally, in April 1945 became commandant of the Bergen-Belsen auxiliary camp (known as either “Nebenlager” or “Kasernenlager”). In consequence of the crimes he had committed there he was sentenced to death in the first Bergen-Belsen trial on November 17, 1945, and executed on December 13, 1945.
33 Cesarani, Final Solution, pp. 676–7. Although this impact should not be exaggerated. Very few Dutch Jews survived Auschwitz.
ERWIN JULIUS BUSTA. Block leader in the tunnels and in the Dora camp. Born 1905. Entered Nazi Party in 1928 and the SS in 1930. Served in a variety of capacities in Dachau, Esterwegen, and Sachsenhausen. Transferred to Peenemünde in summer 1943, then to Mittelbau in the autumn. Was senior SS man within the tunnels and camp, where he developed a reputation for inventing cruelties and tortures. After the war, lived in Germany from 1952 on, under his real name. Arrested in 1968, sentenced in 1970 to eight years, six months in prison, but never began his sentence. Died 1982.
The following morning a five-truck convoy arrived in the crematorium courtyard and dumped out its cargo of bodies, those of the old Sonderkommando. A new group of thirty men carried them to the incineration room, where they were laid out in front of the ovens. Terrible burn scars covered their bodies. Their faces and clothing were so charred that it was all but impossible to identify them, especially since their tattoo numbers had disappeared.
Polish prisoner Wieslaw Kielar24 was at Porta in November 1944, coming from Auschwitz through Sachsenhausen. Digging continued at the foot of the Bremsberg hill while a cog railway made it possible to accede to the nine levels of an abandoned mine occupied by the workshops of the Philips factories.
As is customary for former deportees as well as veterans, pilgrimages to the sites are organized on a yearly basis by the various associations concerned. With regard to Dora, the European Committee, the International Buchenwald-Dora Committee, the Belgian and French associations (Dora-Ellrich and Buchenwald-Dora) were these past few years especially active.
41 Robert Jay Lifton, The Nazi Doctors: Medical Killing and the Psychology of Genocide, Basic Books, 1986, p. 280. Brack was a failed medical student.
My two colleagues and I, and the lab assistant, left the room. Steinberg and the two SS soldiers halted halfway between the two crematoriums. The Ober gave me a sheaf of papers he had been holding in his hand on which there was a list of numbers and told me to find mine and strike it out. The papers contained the tattoo numbers of every man in the Sonderkommando. I took out my pen and, after hunting for a while, found my number and drew a line through it. He then told me to do the same for my comrades. This done, he accompanied us to number one gate and told us to return to our room, and not to leave it. We did as ordered.
This was the first time during my stay in the crematoriums that a convoy sent to Auschwitz’s “rest camp” had not been liquidated, either by gas or the Ober’s revolver, within an hour after its arrival, but had, on the contrary, been given medical attention and allowed to rest in the beds of the camp’s hospital barracks.
Such testimony is relevant in a history of the Holocaust because it reminds us once again that the extermination of the Jews took place in the context of a war of the most horrendous brutality, though that must not, of course, be considered any form of excuse for the Nazis’ crime. Significantly, the appalling scenes in Budapest were not replicated in Bucharest in Romania or in Sofia in Bulgaria after the Red Army arrived. Hitler had, to a large extent, brought this suffering upon the Hungarians. For a necessary precondition of the Red Army’s atrocities in Hungary had been Hitler’s decision that the Hungarians were to be prevented, unlike the Romanians and Bulgarians, from changing sides as the Soviets neared. Hitler’s stubbornness was ultimately futile anyway. At the end of December, with Budapest surrounded, the new Hungarian government, sponsored by the Soviets, declared war on Germany.
THE STAGES OF THE EVACUATION. There were three periods in the evacuation. The first, from April 21 to 25, was the real death march to Wittstock. The itinerary, which varied depending on the detachment, was as follows: Sachsenhausen-Hohenbruch on April 21, Löwenberg-Herzberg-Neuruppin on April 22, Katerbow-Rägelin-Rossow-Herzsprung on April 23, Papenbruch on April 24, and Wittstock-Eichenfelde and the arrival at Below Woods on April 25. At that point they were on the border of Brandenburg and Mecklenburg.
The Hungarian Jews were the last European Jews to be the subject of systematic deportation after the occupation of Hungary by German troops in March 1944. At the time they were supposed to be assigned to armaments factories, after “selection” at Auschwitz.
In many respects Auschwitz was thus an attractive posting for a member of the SS. Not only was there little danger of getting killed, but the food and drink were excellent – much of it stolen from the arriving Jews. There was also the opportunity to get rich. An SS officer tasked with investigating corruption in the camp in 1943 later said that ‘The conduct of the SS staff was beyond any of the standards that you’d expect from soldiers. They made the impression of demoralized and brutal parasites. An examination of the lockers yielded a fortune of gold, pearls, rings, and money in all kinds of currencies.’21
Those convicted under Paragraph 175 were sent either to conventional prisons or to concentration camps where they risked being tortured in order to reveal the names of other homosexuals. They could even be castrated. The law stated that homosexuals had to consent to such a drastic operation, but once in the camps they could be subjected to unrelenting pressure to make them agree.40 Altogether around 10,000 homosexuals were sent to concentration camps during the Third Reich; no one knows exactly how many of these died, but one estimate suggests that it was as many as 60 per cent.41
In an article published in 1997 in the magazine Le Serment, Paul Le Goupil62 was eager to specify the conditions under which the “transport” lists were drawn up and sometimes modified at Buchenwald. This topic, as will be seen later, generated serious debate after the war between German and Soviet communists. Le Goupil thought that Marcel Paul had played a positive role under delicate conditions. Le Goupil belonged to the “tattooed” convoy that went through Auschwitz on its way to Buchenwald in May 1944, along with Marcel Paul and the author’s father, Louis Sellier, who was one of the noncommunist trade union activists (among them Christian Pineau) who had founded the Libé-Nord resistance movement.
I began to see the light. Dr. Wolff was also engaged in research. In the midst of the stench and smoke of the crematoriums, he too wished to profit from the hundreds of thousands of human guinea pigs available in the KZ, many of whom had been reduced by dysentery to an unbelievable 60 or 65 pounds. Through the dissection of a large number of bodies he hoped to discover the internal manifestations of dysentery still unknown to medical science.
88 Ioanid, Holocaust in Romania, p. 120; Kindle edition, location 2726–34.
Chapter 21. From Sachsenhausen and Ravensbrück to the Schwerin Region
I am not one usually given to pause and weigh the pro and con before acting. I decide quickly and act quickly, especially when it is a question of an important decision. The results are not always brilliant. The fact that I had ended up here in the crematoriums was the result of a snap decision.
While they sorted us out for transportation I had a chance to look around. In the light of the dying sun the image glimpsed earlier through the crack in the box car seemed to have changed, grown more eery and menacing. One object immediately caught my eye: an immense square chimney, built of red bricks, tapering towards the summit. It towered above a two-story building and looked like a strange factory chimney. I was especially struck by the enormous tongues of flame rising between the lightning rods, which were set at angles on the square tops of the chimney. I tried to imagine what hellish cooking would require such a tremendous fire. Suddenly I realized that we were in Germany, the land of the crematory ovens. I had spent ten years in this country, first as a student, later as a doctor, and knew that even the smallest city had its crematorium.
Couture’s account75 is not very different: “I was evacuated from Ellrich to Dora in a small truck, which, twice a week, carried corpses to the Dora crematorium. Because I wasn’t dead when we got there, I was put into waiting in the Revier, then sent to Nordhausen as a Muselmann.” He remained in the Dora Revier from December 20, 1944, to March 10, 1945. Gilbert,76 the victim of a serious accident, was transported unconscious to the Dora Revier in early October and was treated by Dr. Poupault. He subsequently managed to stay in the Altverwertung (recovery) Kommando until the evacuation.
The rest was history. Seven of us were left in the crematoriums. The twelve fugitives were rounded up during the night. They had succeeded in crossing the Vistula, but were completely worn out and had sought shelter in a house they thought might furnish them with at least a temporary hiding place. But the owner had informed an SS detachment combing the area, and all twelve had been ambushed and recaptured.
While hundreds of documents and books on the subject of the KZ (the Nazi concentration camps) have appeared over the past forty to fifty years—from the autobiography of the Auschwitz commandant Rudolf Hoess to personal accounts of survivors, and culminating in Danuta Czech’s monumental Auschwitz Chronicle, 1939–1945—none to my knowledge has ever recounted in detail what went on every day inside the crematoriums, for the simple reason that the gate to the crematoriums was the gate to death.
With regard simply to “entries” in the Buchenwald camp alone, Kogon drew up a table28 on the basis of the following figures: 14,111 in 1942, 42,177 in 1943, 97,866 in 1944, and 43,823 in the first quarter of 1945. These figures, which correspond to identity numbers, comprise both newcomers into the concentration camp system and prisoners coming from other camps (organized transfers or evacuations). For Buchenwald, the progression appears with the series of identity numbers having to do with the arrivals of French prisoners. In June 1943 the numbers were into the “14,000s,” the “small numbers” having been reused, occasionally several times over, following deaths since the beginning of the camp. The arrival of the “20,000s” and “21,000s” took place in September 1943, the “39,000s” to “44,000s” in January 1944, and the “77,000s” in August 1944. These and other convoys will be studied in greater detail later.
42. An Allied reconnaissance flight photo of Auschwitz Birkenau (Roger-Viollet / TopFoto)
In the autumn of 1946, the Finnish prisoners were released. One woman, grateful to Bella for teaching her daughter to read, offered to take a letter to Finland for her and to post it. Bella gratefully accepted the offer, but wondered who to write to. She had no know way of knowing where Leo might be – it seemed unlikely that he had stayed in Japan for long, and if he had, he would surely have died in the war. She had heard a vague story about Hiroshima. She knew at least ten addresses of relatives in Lithuania, but there was no doubt in her mind that they no longer lived there. She had also heard a few things about deportations and concentration camps. She really had only one address to write to, her cousin Soroh’s in Connecticut.
This situation could not go on forever. One morning in July, Bailly, who was at Wieda, heard gunfire. He gives the following account: “A group of prisoners were assembled at the barn entrance. [ . . . ] Through the door, I saw helmeted SS, arms in hand, going into the courtyard. The SS commander came out of his office, pale, bare-headed, his face worn, and his uniform undone. An SS man, a defiant smile on his lips, was pushing him with violent shoves in the back, a revolver pointed between his shoulders. They left the camp and got into a black Volkswagen which sped off with a squeal of its tires. [ . . . ] When they arrived, the SS (sent from Buchenwald) had found the camp open, German prisoners unsupervised in the village, and the commander asleep in his office.”
The miners who arrived from Sachsenhausen in a special transport were designated to finish digging tunnel A at Kohnstein. They very erroneously imagined that they were being sent to a coal mine in the Saar.20 Léon Bronchart, who was with them, was an extraordinary individual, whose name will be mentioned later in connection with the AEG Kommando.
Those in the German government who did not enthusiastically embrace this vision were soon discarded. Hjalmar Schacht, the Reich Minister of Economics, who had done so much to make rearmament possible by his creative reorganization of the German economy, was fired in November 1937. He was simply not radical enough. Schacht remained as President of the Reichsbank until he was sacked from that post too in January 1939. He was finally removed from the meaningless post of Minister without Portfolio at the start of 1943. The following year, after the 20 July attempt on Hitler’s life, he was sent to a concentration camp.
Max Abraham was released after four months’ incarceration, and managed to leave Germany for Czechoslovakia in 1934. Eventually he settled in Britain where he died in 1977.51 His Juda verrecke. Ein Rabbiner im Konzentrationslager reminds us that Stormtroopers and SS treated Jews in sadistic ways in concentration camps long before the creation of the extermination centres of the Holocaust.
Mrs De Voogd made her own personal commitment to the refugees whose journey brought them to Kobe. In particular, her heart went out to the Nussbaum family: Chaim and his wife, Rachel, who was expecting a baby soon, their two children, and his brother, Samuel. They had arrived in Kobe exhausted. Chaim Nussbaum told Mrs De Voogd something she barely thought about at the time, but that would later come back to her vividly: he was born near Auschwitz in 1909.
When the war broke out, Peppy’s parents and her brother, Levie, were visiting Łódź. Her father flew back to Amsterdam by way of Warsaw to attend to the interests of his textile business. He made it out of Poland just in time; Warsaw had not yet been captured by the German army, and the Battle of Łódź did not take place until a few days later. Not that he had escaped the Nazis once and for all; three years later, on 26 September 1942, Sternheim was murdered in the gas chambers of Auschwitz. In the summer of 1942, he had attempted to flee from Amsterdam. With diamonds sewn into the lining of his coat, he had tried to reach Switzerland. But he was removed from the train in France, and sent first to the Drancy internment camp and later to Auschwitz, where he was murdered on arrival.
This panorama of events makes it easier to understand what took place in Dora as of August 1943. The setbacks of classical weaponry, particularly at Kursk, made new arms all the more appealing. Air raids on German factories provided impetus for the development of underground facilities. Events in the Ukraine, Italy, and France enabled immediate expansion of the concentration camp workforce.
Reder was spared immediate death only because he was selected to become one of the team of several hundred Jews who were forced to work in the camp, performing tasks like emptying the gas chambers of the dead and burying the bodies. If the SS felt any workers had not performed adequately during the day, they were taken in the evening to the edge of a mass grave and shot. The next day a few more Jews would be selected from an incoming transport to take their place.
In the end there remained the sick, who, considered contagious, were abandoned at Auschwitz, including the Italian Jew Primo Levi13 and the Slovenian Porocevalec, who, like Rogerie, had arrived there from Dora via Maïdanek. In the end the camp was liberated only on January 27, at the moment of the final battles in the region—marked by the takeover of Katowice.
Just days later, in August 1941, the T4 euthanasia programme came under threat. In one of the most famous statements of resistance in the history of the Third Reich, Clemens von Galen, Bishop of Münster, mounted a powerful attack on the practice of ‘euthanasia’. In Münster Cathedral, on the first Sunday in August, he said, ‘For several months we have heard reports that people who have been sick for a while and may appear incurable, have been taken away from mental and nursing homes for the mentally ill on orders from Berlin. After a short time, their relatives then receive notification that the patient has died, the body has been burnt, and the ashes can be sent to them. There is widespread suspicion, bordering on certainty, that these numerous cases of the sudden deaths of the mentally ill don’t occur naturally, but are being caused intentionally, and that they follow that doctrine that claims that one is justified in destroying so-called “life unworthy of life” – thus to kill innocent human beings, when one thinks that their life is of no value for the people [Volk] and the state.’30 Galen passionately believed that ‘This is not about machines, not about horses or cows whose only purpose is to serve mankind, to produce goods for the people! One may annihilate them, butcher them, as soon as they don’t fulfil their purpose any more. No, this is about human beings, our fellow human beings, our brothers and sisters! Poor people, sick people, unproductive people if you like! But have they for this reason forfeited their right to live?’ He said that if the same principle was applied widely it could also lead to the killing of ‘invalids’ and, in a warning that had special relevance given the fierce fighting taking place in the east, even of ‘brave soldiers’ who returned home ‘seriously disabled’.
This idea that the inmates of camps like Dachau somehow deserved to be there – even though they had faced no criminal trial – was not uncommon. Walter Fernau, for instance, was a teenager when he first ‘heard the words concentration camp’ in 1935. He remembers that ‘a son of a friend of my father’s was flirting with a married woman in a café, and then her husband came in and he was an SS Hauptsturmführer. He took him to task. This son of my father’s friend, he was idle and just lived off his father’s fortune; his goal in life was just to mess around with women and hang around bars. He hit out and gave the SS man, who grabbed him, such a hook that he flew over two tables and slid down the wall. Then he took his girlfriend – that was the man’s wife – and went out. Of course, the police arrested him shortly afterwards. My father told my mother this story over lunch. We children, my sister and I, were listening. And then he said: “Imagine, Adelbert’s son, the big one, they’ve arrested him, he beat up an SS man and now he’s being sent to a concentration camp.” And then my mother said: “What’s that then?” And my father said: “He’ll finally learn the meaning of work there!” And so as a child of fifteen or sixteen I thought, “Oh, that wastrel who has done nothing all his life and just picks up strange women and drives around in fast cars, it’ll do him good to learn how to work for a change.” ’57
As mentioned, a team of Hungarian Jews came from Fallersleben to Dora. The other Werk II prisoners came partly from Werk I, such as Jacques Chamboissier, Claude Lauth, and Xavier de Lisle. Didier Bourget, who had come back from Bergen-Belsen via Buchenwald, found a job there painting V1s. Edmond Debeaumarché and Louis Gentil were in the “77,000” train. Olivier Richet and Marcel Ranchain, who had been in a verification Kommando in a bombed-out Buchenwald factory, were again given jobs checking V1s. They did not belong to the Ko Scherer, however, for Werk I and Werk II Kommandos were totally separate. Thus, Werk II also had its own Transportkolonnen, which were just as dreadful as those of Werk I.
THE BUCHENWALD AND DORA TRIALS IN 1947. The Buchenwald trial took place at Dachau from April to August 1947. The camp commander, Hermann Pister, was one of the accused. He was sentenced to death but died of a heart attack in the Landsberg prison in September 1948.
Since it was impossible to cross at Magdeburg, another solution had to be found. The train set off across the Altmark on the morning of April 11 and went through Haldensleben and Calvörde before arriving at Oebisfelde. There Möser learned that Bergen-Belsen would be abandoned to the British and that his convoy was to go to Sachsenhausen. It set off again in the direction of Salzwedel and Arendsee to cross the Elbe at Wittenberge by night. This was the same day the convoy from Ellrich crossed the Elbe at Dömitz, some thirty-two miles downstream.
25 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 163.
The new SS regime at Treblinka ensured that the camp was kept as spotless as possible. ‘The path that led to the gas chambers had to be clean and tidy,’ says Kalman. ‘Each time we had to bring new clean yellow sand and scatter it.’ During his time at the camp, he says, ‘the death machinery worked there very efficiently.’
18 US Holocaust Memorial Museum figures, https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/article.php?ModuleId=10007728.
Judging by the memo that Glücks sent to SS camp doctors on December 26, 1942, it does not appear that the camp commanders were able successfully to adapt themselves to carrying out these instructions.17 In it he states: “Attached for your information is a table of current arrivals and exits in all the concentration camps. It would so appear that of some 136,000 in-coming prisoners, 70,000 have died. With a mortality rate of this kind, the number of prisoners will never reach the level the Reichsführer-SS has ordered. [. . .] Camp doctors are to pay closer attention than previously to the prisoners’ food. [. . .]
35 Rees, Auschwitz, pp. 236–7.
30 Vicki Caron, ‘The Path to Vichy: Antisemitism in France in the 1930s’, United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies, J. B. and Maurice C. Shapiro Annual Lecture, 20 April 2005, pp. 1–2.
75 Robert Jay Lifton, The Nazi Doctors: Medical Killing and the Psychology of Genocide, Basic Books, 1986, p. 279.
No one on the Jewish Council, or within the Jewish community as a whole, knew for certain what was going to happen to these girls or to the thousands of other Jews about to be sent to a ‘destination unknown’. But within days of the deportations beginning rumours started to circulate. The underground newspaper De Waarheid printed a plea to Dutch policemen on 3 August, saying ‘think of your human and professional duty – arrest no Jews and only make a show of carrying out orders directed against them. Let them escape and go into hiding. Remember that every man, every woman and every child you arrest will be killed and that you are their murderer.’28 On 29 July, Radio Orange, broadcasting from London, had said: ‘Just how does it help the German war effort to herd together thousands of defenceless Jewish Poles and do away with them in gas-chambers? How does it help the war effort when thousands of Jewish Dutchmen are dragged out of their country?’29
From the very beginning therefore Bergen-Belsen was different from all the other large camps. Four separate sections were set up in succession for groups of Jews subject to special regulations. First there was the “star camp” (Sternlager), which was the largest, then the “neutral” camp, the Polish camp, and finally the Hungarian camp. Some of the Jews were indeed sent to Switzerland following negotiations or exchanges. Others on the contrary were sent to their deaths at Auschwitz. It was a complicated business involving a total of nearly ten thousand people, both men and women. The camp for ordinary prisoners working on the site was smaller than the special camps and separate from them. Its survivors were transferred to Sachsenhausen in February 1944.
The first prisoners arrived from Buchenwald on April 21, 1944, and the second group from Neuengamme on April 27. All the other convoys up until February 1945 came from Buchenwald with the exception of the October 15, 1944, convoy, which brought five hundred prisoners directly from Sachsenhausen. Every nationality was represented: Germans of course, but also many French, Poles, Russians, and Czechs, for instance. The arrival of Latvians on August 8, 1944, from a camp near Riga via Buchenwald was noted. There were no convoys of Hungarian Jews such as there were at Dora. The Jews coming from Auschwitz in February 1945 via Buchenwald were of all different nationalities.
THE LAST MONTHS AT THE DORA CAMP. The evacuation of the eastern camps in January–February 1945 not only brought new prisoners to Dora-Mittelbau. It freed the SS officials for new duties. This was the case for Richard Baer and Eduard Wirths. The SS-Sturmbannführer (major) Richard Baer had been the Auschwitz camp commander since June 1944, when he was in charge of the evacuation. In February 1945 he replaced, as commander of Dora-Mittelbau, Förschner, who was made commander of the Kaufering camp—dependent on Dachau. The SS-Hauptsturmführer (captain) Eduard Wirths was the chief doctor (Lagerarzt) at Auschwitz—where he arrived in September 1942. He was also appointed to Dora, where he was Kurzke’s superior.
Then the SS stationed in front of the crematorium advanced, leaving behind the two howitzers, which they had not used. With fixed bayonets, they attacked the building from all sides, and scattered through the rooms in the basement and ground floor. A group of SS entered the dissecting room. Guns leveled, they surrounded us and drove us, under a rain of blows, into the courtyard. There they made us lie down on our bellies, our faces hard against the ground. The order rang out: “Anyone who makes a move, or raises his head, will get a bullet in the back of the neck!” A few minutes later I could tell from the sound of footsteps that another SS group had rounded up and brought back a considerable number of Sonderkommando men. They too were made to lie down beside us. How many of them could there be? With my head pressed against the ground it was impossible to tell for sure. Three or four minutes later another group arrived and was made to lie down behind us.
Himmler was in Hohenlychen at the hospital of his friend, Dr. Gebhardt. He had been hospitalized there in March and had set up his headquarters there. Keitel and Jodl were in Fürstenberg, “with a skeleton OKW.” Most of the Wehrmacht command had withdrawn to the Holstein between Kiel and Lübeck with Dönitz, who was in Plön. On April 25, Speer went to see Himmler3 and found him in a hospital room transformed into an office. Speer himself had been in the same room when he first fell ill in January 1944 (cf. chapter 7). Keitel was the next to visit Himmler. Himmler told Speer he was planning to set up a government and asked him to be part of it. He talked about the negotiations he was conducting with Bernadotte to transfer the concentration camps to the International Red Cross.
But Horthy didn’t react as predicted. Even though he was already massively compromised, he reversed his position and on 6 July told the Germans that he wanted the deportations to end. The transports to Auschwitz officially stopped three days later. The pressure on Horthy had been just too much. While he had felt able to sanction the deportations when there were only rumours – however strong and compelling – that the Jews were being killed, now that there was clear evidence that the Jews were being sent to a murder factory he wasn’t prepared to permit them to continue. Especially when not only was he receiving protests from the international community, but Budapest was under direct attack from the Allies with the Americans bombing the Hungarian capital on 2 July. Now that the Western Allies were fighting in France and the Red Army was advancing into eastern Europe, there was no hiding from reality – the Germans were losing the war, and one day the victorious powers would call their collaborators to account. By stopping the deportations now Horthy must have thought he stood a chance of constructing an alibi for himself. His judgement was right. Notwithstanding Hungarian participation in previous atrocities against the Jews, Horthy escaped without punishment at the end of the war. He retired to a seaside town near Lisbon where he died in 1957 aged eighty-eight.
The history of the Holocaust in Italy is especially bleak when compared to events in another country occupied by the Germans, 700 miles to the north. Denmark was home to about 7,500 Jews, and the Nazis planned on moving against them for the first time in the autumn of 1943, around the same time as they were deporting Italian Jews. The relatively light-touch Nazi occupation of Denmark had come to an end during the summer in the wake of strikes and other protests. When the Danish government resigned in August, a state of emergency was imposed by the Germans and the Nazi plenipotentiary, Werner Best, pressed for action against the Jews. The idea was to detain the Danish Jews on the night of 1–2 October 1943, and then deport them. But just a few days before the planned action, Werner Best did something extraordinary. Through an intermediary, Georg Duckwitz, the German naval attaché, Best told the Danish Jews what was about to happen to them. Best briefed Duckwitz on the planned deportations, knowing that Duckwitz, a man sympathetic to the plight of the Danes, would pass the information on to members of the Danish elite, and that they in turn would warn the Jews.
THE WIFO’S ROLE. The contract concluded on September 5, 1943, put the WIFO’s Ni Agency in charge of implementing, for Mittelwerk, a program designated as Bauabschnitt Erweiterung III, that is, it corresponded to the extension of phase three, then underway, of the digging of the Kohnstein tunnels.17 In fact, the program went well beyond this subterranean work. Indeed, it not only included the full-scale conversion of the factory but also, outside, the construction of offices (Bürounterkunft) of the departments of Oberingenieur Sawatzki, the Barackenlager for the German civilians in Ilfeld and in Harzungen, a barracks for the SS (SS-Unterkunft) as well as a concentration camp, referred to as a Häftlings-Erholungslager (prisoners’ rest camp).
In the first place there is no universal agreement about what precisely the word now signifies. Is it confined to the murder of the Jews, or can it refer to any genocide? Was Genghis Khan’s treatment of the Persians a Holocaust, for example? But there’s an even bigger issue, which is that if the Holocaust is restricted just to the extermination of the Jews we risk not understanding the breadth of the murderous thinking of the Nazis. That is because the murder of the Jews should not be taken out of the context of the Nazis’ desire to persecute and kill large numbers of other people – for example, the disabled via the euthanasia actions, or millions of Slavs via a deliberate policy of forced starvation, and so on. Not just that, but the Holocaust as we know it was implemented around the same time as another wide-ranging murderous scheme was under discussion – the General Plan for the East. This plan, which the Nazis were only prevented from pursuing because they were defeated, would have resulted in the death of tens of millions of additional people.
Gamisch and Beham, the two Lagerältester from Buchenwald, assumed their role for a short time—only a few months—which was not long enough for them to develop certain moral practices that had been possible at Buchenwald. Some eyewitness accounts of Buchenwald seem unreal to former prisoners of Dora. The author himself was struck, for example, by the following lines from an account written by Paul Le Goupil:49 “From the corridors, we could enter the common-room where there were cupboards with pigeonholes and several large tables and benches where everyone had a place—even though we could not all sit down at the same time. My soup tin together with my bread and margarine ration were at place 14 on the right-hand side of the first table, located on the left upon entering. If someone was late due to working hours, his rations remained there, all day long if necessary, and no one touched them.” That was in Block 40. Le Goupil was then transferred to Langenstein, where he found the conditions at the new camp altogether different.
As at the other large camps, transports left Sachsenhausen and went in various directions. In September 1943, French miners, including Léon Bronchart, were transferred to Dora via Buchenwald to finish digging out tunnel A (cf. chapter 5). When the prisoners who left Buchenwald for Peenemünde in June and July 1943 (cf. chapter 2) came back to Buchenwald to be assigned to Dora (cf. chapter 5), Sachsenhausen was the camp that acted as a relay until the end (cf. chapter 10). Reinforcements were sent in October 1944 to Langenstein (cf. chapter 13).
I began with my own building. First I stopped at the SS living quarters, planning to examine anyone who showed up, for there were always a few. In the crematoriums everyone feigned illness from time to time in order to get a short respite from his exhausting and nerve-racking labors. There were also more serious cases upon occasion, but we had no trouble taking care of them: as for medical supplies, we could have vied with the best-stocked drugstore in Berlin.
The Kommando was sent there in September 1944 to supply a factory that manufactured cabins for Heinkel airplanes with a concentration camp labor force. It was equivalent to those then assigned to aircraft construction in Rottleberode, Halberstadt, Aschersleben, Niederorschel, and Langensalza, to mention only the nearest. When it left Buchenwald the Kommando was made up of five hundred men, most of them French, along with some Belgians, Russians, Poles, and of course Germans—Greens, who looked after supervision. Some of the prisoners in the Kommando were more or less qualified workers.
23 Permanent exhibition at Sachsenhausen concentration camp memorial.
Other SS working at the crematoria/gas chambers took the opportunity to indulge their sadistic desires. In testimony written at the time by a member of the Sonderkommando and discovered only after the war, a chronicler describes how one particular SS man liked to feel the sexual parts of naked young women as they walked by him on the way to the gas chamber.31
An essential explanatory role was played, in the first years after the war, by a handful of German and Austrian prisoners who had found themselves assigned to positions in the camps that had enabled them to gain an understanding of the workings of the system and to appreciate the behavior of all those involved, from the wardens to the various categories of prisoners. The writings of Eugen Kogon, Hermann Langbein, and Walter Bartel, in particular, made it possible to interpret both the contents of the remaining documents and the evidence given by the SS in the trials following the war.
What happened to the concentration camp population during those few weeks is generally described as the “liberation of the camps.” This is a convenient expression, but it does not convey an accurate picture of events. In most cases the prisoners were liberated outside of what had been their camps at the outset. Before being “liberated” they were “evacuated” under extremely varying, more or less tragic conditions. Evacuations usually took place in the form of railway convoys, although barges were sometimes used. When neither trains nor barges were available, the prisoners were sent off in columns on foot, a procedure that has since come to be known as a “death march,” which was sometimes very long and very deadly. The term “death march” is not appropriate, however, to describe all the evacuations.
The Sachsenhausen prisoners worked5 for the SS in the arsenal, the warehouses, and the workshops. Beneath the pine trees there was also a plant where Panzerfaust (bazookas) were produced, and the Klinker brick factory was located near the Havel Canal. Annexed to the camp itself was a DAW armaments factory (as at Buchenwald).
The itinerary followed by these trains is not well known, as those on the trains were hardly in a state to identify their whereabouts. They appeared to be heading to Moravia before going through Austria or Bohemia to reach one of the large German camps such as Buchenwald or Dora, or even Bergen-Belsen. Roger Climaud, a French Jewish Resistance fighter from Monowitz, arrived directly at Dora.14 But certain trains, where Rogerie15 and Marc Klein16 ended up, headed toward the Gross Rosen camp.
At this point a remark was made (it happened to be made by Storch, but that is neither here nor there) without drawing any conclusion: “Einsatz französischer Arbeiter im MW nur Einkleidung möglich” [We cannot use French workers unless they are made to wear the uniform]—by which everyone understood he meant “striped prisoner’s pajamas.” For Storch it was a banal observation given the situation. The fact that it would mean arresting and deporting French civilians was not his concern, and there is nothing to indicate that he himself was in favor of this solution. On the other hand, if the Gestapo and the SS were to take care of supplying the manpower, they would know how to put it to use. In any event, it never occurred. Yet the degree to which the concentration camp system had become widespread, which leaps out of the page from this simple, isolated sentence, is no doubt significant.
There are several testimonies of prisoners who were at Dora when the convoys arrived from Auschwitz and Gross Rosen. They generally made no distinction between them. No commentary is necessary to accompany these texts.
The city of Berlin had to be first of all isolated from the rest of Brandenburg in order to establish a quadripartite occupation with four “sectors.” The rest of Brandenburg remained under Soviet occupation with the exception of the territories located to the east of the Oder-Neisse line, which were ceded to Poland. It was in this reduced Brandenburg that Sachsenhausen, Oranienburg, and Ravensbrück were located. With the exception of a small territory to the east of the Neisse, Saxony was located in the Soviet zone. It expanded into the part of Lower Silesia that was located to the west of the Neisse. Mecklenburg was included in the Soviet zone along with “Fore” Pomerania (Vorpommern) to the west of the Oder. It was in this part of Pomerania that Peenemünde was located. The Hanoverian territory located north of the Elbe was also attached to Mecklenburg.3
FIRST RECOURSES TO CONCENTRATION CAMP LABOR. The prisoners from the Buchenwald camp who arrived at Dora on August 28, 1943, were not the first to be used for rocket manufacturing. Others had already been put to work at Peenemünde, in Wiener Neustadt, and in Friedrichshafen. It all began with an initiative of Jäger’s: following a discussion at Peenemünde, where Rudolph mentioned to him his concerns about a labor shortage, Jäger organized a visit for him to the Heinkel factories in Oranienburg, where a large Kommando of prisoners from the Sachsenhausen camp was employed and housed.31 The visit, which took place on April 12, 1943, was the object of a detailed and highly favorable report by Rudolph, with instructions as to how to proceed in order to have the prisoners sent.32 With Dornberger’s approbation, a meeting took place on June 2 at Heinz Kunze’s office—Degenkolb’s assistant—and it was decided to request fourteen hundred prisoners through Jäger from Obersturmführer Maurer, of the SS’s WVHA.33
Many of the pioneers in the eugenics movement were not anti-Semites – Ploetz, for instance, thought the Jews were ‘racial Aryans’ – but their teachings were of enormous use to those who were. The idea that ‘racial hygiene’ was central to the health of a nation, combined with Houston Chamberlain’s notion that the Jews were a racial threat to ‘Aryan’ people, added a potentially catastrophic element to the anti-Semitic brew. Traditional anti-Semitism had been based on religion. If the Jews converted to Christianity then they had a chance of escaping persecution. But the idea that ‘Jewishness’ was something inherent in an individual – that it was present, as the Nazis came to believe, in the blood – meant that there was no escape. Your ‘race’, over which you had no control, was your destiny. You could be the kindest, most generous person imaginable, but if your ‘race’ was assessed as inferior or dangerous then you were at risk of persecution.
The block was also the place where soup was served and rations distributed. Strict rationing was a characteristic feature of most of the Buchenwald blocks, but that was seldom the case at Dora. The Blockältester and the people around him tended with more or less discretion to put some aside for themselves. The very limited rations also encouraged stealing, especially of bread, among prisoners. In the camp blocks there was no longer any organized looting like that in the tunnel dormitories. Yet the temptation remained strong, and theft was often severely punished.
Just over 70,000 Jews from Łódź ghetto arrived in Auschwitz that summer. Among them were Max Epstein and his mother.47 ‘The ghetto was no picnic,’ says Max, ‘and I’m not trying to defend the style there, but it was still home. It was still families … as pitiful as it was, it was something.’48 It took Max a mere ‘twenty minutes’ to realize that Auschwitz was an altogether different place. ‘The smell,’ he says, ‘it was like burning film or hair, you know, organic. So it was crystal clear [that the SS were killing people].’ Because Max’s transport contained skilled workers who had specialized in the repair of communications equipment, they were not selected on arrival but admitted straight into the camp.
56 Rees, Auschwitz, pp. 215–16. Also see Yitzhak Arad, Belzec, Sobibor, Treblinka: The Operation Reinhard Death Camps, Indiana University Press, 1999, p. 366.
The work site was very harsh. The prisoners had to dig the underground galleries, which made up a “veritable molehill,” and construct outside access points, including a railway link. It was bitterly cold, “a terrible winter.” There were many sick, the Revier was overrun, and a Schonung was set up in conditions similar to those at Dora. “Twice a week, a truck packed the cadavers away to the crematory oven at Buchenwald.”
In addition to Treblinka, Sobibór and Bełżec, a fourth murder camp under the aegis of Odilo Globocnik was in operation during 1942. This place, called Majdanek, was situated just 3 miles away from Globocnik’s office in Lublin. Majdanek was an unusual camp within the system: neither a prisoner-of-war camp nor a concentration camp, nor a specialized death camp, nor a massive combination of concentration and death camp like Auschwitz, but a mixture, on a smaller scale, of all of them. Even the Nazis seemed unsure how to label the camp. Until early 1943 the place was officially the ‘Prisoner of War Camp of the Waffen SS in Lublin’, while other German documents at the same time called it a ‘concentration camp’.37
However, at the top of the German hierarchy in Denmark, the position was clear. Werner Best wanted to allow the Jews to escape. Yet before this action, Best had previously been no friend of the Jews. He was a committed Nazi who had worked closely with Reinhard Heydrich, helping to devise and implement Nazi racial policy in France. There is no evidence that he had suddenly developed a sense of compassion for the plight of the Jews. He was acting out of self-interest, not humanity. A clue to his real thinking is contained in a document he wrote for the authorities in Berlin, dated 5 October 1943: ‘As the objective goal of the Judenaktion in Denmark was the de-judaization of the country, and not a successful headhunt, it must be concluded that the Judenaktion has reached its goal.’21 In essence, Best was arguing that since his job was to clear the Jews out of Denmark, he had succeeded. It was just that he had achieved success not by deporting the Jews to their deaths, but by letting them escape to Sweden. He could also have added that the political situation in Denmark had always been different from that in other Nazi-occupied countries. The Nazis had largely permitted the Danes to enforce their own occupation, in order to ensure that Danish food supplies kept arriving in the Reich, and the bad feeling caused by the forced deportation of the Jews would have been considerable. Much better, Best must have thought, to achieve the desired ‘goal’ by more subtle means than used elsewhere.
Chapter 16: Auschwitz
PASSING THROUGH THE LAURA CAMP. It is not possible to speak of Dora and the attached Kommandos without making some reference to the Laura camp. Indeed, three of the principal witnesses, Aimé Bonifas, Jacques Courtaud, and Jean-Henry Tauzin, passed through this camp after their quarantine period at Buchenwald before getting to Ellrich or Wieda. But contrary to what is often held—and has sometimes been written—the Laura camp never depended on Dora. It was and remained until the end a Buchenwald Kommando.
at Buchenwald
But this condition lasted for only a few days. Life soon resumed its normal course, as evidenced by their desire for a good meal and cigarettes, and especially for brandy, the blessed remedy of all Sonderkommando men, the panacea for crematorium sickness. After having gone without clothes in the KZ barracks, they enjoyed the comfort of decent ones. Personal hygiene was once again a reality: showers, plenty of water and soap, towels in abundance. I watched them as an old sergeant might watch a group of new recruits. They would get used to all this before long.
I HAD MANAGED TO LAY MY HANDS ON a copy of the French dictionary, Petit Larousse. With the help of the maps it contained I tried to situate the names of the various localities mentioned in the newspaper reports. Alone in my room, I studied the military situation along the southern and eastern fronts. Heavy footsteps resounded in the hallway. I quickly flipped the pages and looked impatiently towards the door. The crematorium commander came in to inform me that an important commission was arriving at 2:00 P.M. and that I should have the dissecting room ready to receive them.
Today, during my rounds, a serious case awaited me in number four. One of the Sonderkommando chauffeurs had tried to commit suicide by taking an overdose of sleeping tablets. This was the most common method of committing suicide at Auschwitz. The men of the Sonderkommando had no trouble procuring sleeping tablets, for they found large numbers of them every day when they went through the belongings of the dead.
Israel and the others ‘were told that they are going to the children’s camp. Where they are going to have much better treatment. I didn’t believe it.’ A number of others in the group didn’t believe the promise either, but ‘I suppose they were in such despair by then that they just said it’s no good. No good to fight, we’re giving up, sort of. I mean there were people who went to the electric wires and just killed themselves. They just didn’t want to live like that … they gave up. There’s no purpose in life. I mean it was a terrible situation. People who were part of a family, they lived in a family, suddenly they were thrown into the worst part of hell … your people are getting sent to the gas. It was not a gradual transformation, just suddenly. And it was such a shock for people, they couldn’t take it … In my experience there was no hysterics. The people accepted fatalistically what’s going to happen to them. There was no screaming. Maybe – I heard in the night when they were taking them in the gas chamber there was a bit of screaming. Otherwise, what is to scream? To whom do you scream? You accept your fate. Well, a condemned man in his cell is screaming all night? I don’t think so.’
At the same time as the Italians were protecting Jews in the areas they controlled, thousands of Dutch Jews were en route to Auschwitz – by the end of 1942 about 40,000 Jews had been sent from the Netherlands to the east. All this was made possible not just because of the continuing cooperation of the Dutch authorities, but as a result of the comprehensive system of registration that the Germans had put in place. In January 1941 all Dutch Jews had been told to register with the authorities and virtually every single one of them had done so – altogether nearly 160,000 registrations.
10 Henryk Świebocki, Auschwitz, 1940–1945: Central Issues in the History of the Camp, vol. 4: The Resistance Movement, Auschwitz Birkenau State Museum, 2000, pp. 244–9, and Franciszek Piper, Auschwitz, 1940–1945: Central Issues in the History of the Camp, vol. 3: Mass Murder, Auschwitz Birkenau State Museum, 2000, pp. 186–7.
At Buchenwald and Dora, a significant number of prisoners came from Alsace-Lorraine. They ended up there in two ways: either they were professors and students from the University of Strasbourg, which had retreated to Clermont-Ferrand in 1939, or they were Alsatians or Mosellians who had been arrested at home since Alsace and Lorraine had been annexed by Germany in 1940.
The Mittelbau camps, whether in their external appearance, changed interior structures, constant functional expansion, or organizational core, showed very little resemblance to the prewar concentration camps. Amtsgruppe D of the SSWVHA, which had developed from Theodor Eicke’s Inspectorate of Concentration Camps, in the end had a very small consultative role in Mittelbau. By the end of 1943 SS General Hans Kammler had succeeded in his step-by-step extraction of Mittelbau-Dora from the organizational mesh of Amtsgruppe D. Without the increasing manifestations of dissolution in the Nazis’ governance structure, the formation of an independent Mittelbau-Dora complex would have been unthinkable. With the change in the military situation in the winter of 1941–1942 new centers of power established themselves in the eroding system of Nazi rule. One need cite only the expansion of Speer’s armaments ministry as well as the creation of the SS-WVHA and of the office of the General Plenipotentiary for Labor Allocation. With the beginning of 1944 this development accelerated with the appointment of the diverse interministerial Sonderstäbe, or special staffs. The Kammler staff office was one of these new power centers that, in addition to its institutional and personnel “moorings” in the armaments ministry, the Reich Air Ministry, and the SS apparatus, also was able to create a territorial basis for itself with Mittelbau-Dora and the closed district “Sperrkreis Mittelbau.”
The chief of the gas chamber kommando almost tore the hinges off the door to my room as he arrived out of breath, his eyes wide with fear or surprise.
THE DORA REVIER. All the concentration camps had some sort of hospital, which was called the Revier. Certain camp maps indicated Häftlingskrankenbau or HKB, which was the same thing. There was a wide variety of Revier, depending on location and time period. The quality of a Revier was dependent on the personality of the SS doctor who supervised it, and that of the Kapo under whose command it fell; it also depended on the genuine medical competency of the “doctor” and nurse prisoners who worked there. In any case, means and particularly medicines were generally lacking.
This not being master of one’s own death instinct can take many forms. The form it took in those extermination camp prisoners who walked themselves into the gas chambers began with their adherence to “business as usual.” Those who tried to serve their executioners in what were once their civilian capacities (in this case, as physicians) were merely continuing if not business, then life as usual. Whereby they opened the door to their death.
21 Hermann Langbein, Der Auschwitz-Prozess. Eine Dokumentation, Neue Kritik, 1995. See the testimony of Konrad Morgen in Frankfurt am Main on 8 March 1962, at the Auschwitz trial, ibid., pp. 143–5.
Buchenwald and Dora as Places of Memory in Germany
The gas chamber in the main camp at Auschwitz was, as we have seen, improvised within a mortuary in the crematorium. The site always presented problems for the SS of noise, secrecy and capacity. These were issues that Christian Wirth, late of the adult euthanasia scheme and now overseeing the construction of the gas chambers at Bełżec, would have hoped to avoid.
On August 28, 1943, he was in the first convoy of 107 prisoners sent from Buchenwald to Dora; in his memoirs, Groeneveld noted that only 7 of them were left in 1945. Initially he worked in the tunnel, then became a nurse again once the Revier was set up. He finally managed to have himself recognized as a doctor. After him, many prisoner-doctors arrived—French and Czech in particular. But Groeneveld’s authority remained. Those attesting to his competence and kindness are numerous, French prisoners like Sadron foremost among them.
Pierre Choquenet,10 a prisoner from Sachsenhausen, spent the night of May 1 to 2 with a hundred other prisoners in a barn filled with straw, guarded by SS. By morning the SS were gone. He had a fright in retrospect when he learned what had happened at Gardelegen.
There can be no question in this book of studying the conditions under which the Buchenwald camp was partially—and only partially—evacuated in April 1945. Some information on certain points is required, however. At the time of the American offensive toward Thuringia, prisoners from a number of satellite Kommandos were brought back to the main camp. The withdrawal took place under tragic conditions for Springen and Ohrdruf, but far more normally for the prisoners of Mühlhausen, Niederorschel, Halberstadt, (including Henri Thomas), and Langensalza (including Michel Vidal). On the other hand, as was already mentioned, those from Gandersheim, Langenstein, and Neu Stassfurt, for example, left directly in evacuation columns.
The gold teeth were collected in buckets filled with an acid which burned off all pieces of bone and flesh. Other valuables worn by the dead, such as necklaces, pearls, wedding bands and rings, were taken and dropped through a slot in the lid of a strongbox. Gold is a heavy metal, and I would judge that from 18 to 20 pounds of it were collected daily in each crematorium. It varied, to be sure, from one convoy to the next, for some convoys were comparatively wealthy, while others, from rural districts, were naturally poorer.
61 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 68, together with previously unpublished testimony.
The revolution encapsulated in the design of Crematoria IV and V was simple. They were the first buildings at Auschwitz that from the initial design stage were intended to function solely as places of murder. They had undressing rooms, gas chambers and crematoria ovens all on one level – a kind of conveyor belt of death. The other two new crematoria still betrayed in their design their origins as places to burn human remains, rather than to kill them as well. Crematoria II and III had the undressing room and gas chamber in the semi-basement, because the function of these rooms had originally been to store dead bodies. Now that they had been converted, it meant that once people had been murdered their bodies had to be transported in a corpse lift up to the level of the crematorium to be burnt.
Kasztner knew about the mass killings at Auschwitz because he had read a report written by two former inmates, Rudolf Vrba and Alfred Wetzler. They had managed to escape from the camp in April 1944 and had made their way back to their homeland of Slovakia. There they recorded what was happening at Auschwitz Birkenau. Prior to this, few people in the world knew about the true function of Birkenau. Because Birkenau was partially a work camp, at the centre of a whole network of other work camps, many observers outside the Reich had misunderstood its primary purpose. Richard Lichtheim, for instance, of the Jewish Agency in Geneva, had thought – prior to reading the Vrba–Wetzler report – that the Germans were deporting Jews to Auschwitz in order ‘to exploit more Jewish labour in the industrial centres of Upper Silesia’.42 But the Vrba–Wetzler report left no room for doubt about the real purpose of Auschwitz. It accurately described the opening of the new crematoria/gas-chamber complexes at Birkenau in 1943 and the way in which the murders were conducted. It wasn’t surprising that the report was so authentic, because one of the Sonderkommandos working in the crematoria, Filip Müller, had told the two Slovaks exactly what went on there. ‘I had handed to Alfred [Wetzler] a plan of the crematoria and gas chambers as well as a list of names of the SS men who were on duty there,’ wrote Müller after the war. ‘In addition I had given to both of them notes I had been making for some time of almost all transports gassed in crematoria 4 and 5. I had described to them in full detail the process of extermination so that they would be able to report to the outside world …’43
The decisions made in August 1943 after the bombing of Peenemünde had two important consequences. The first was to break up the geographical and administrative unity of the V2 design and production apparatus, until then held together only through Dornberger’s obstinacy. The second was to establish an organic, indissoluble link between the German rocket venture and the Nazi concentration camp system—under the worst conditions for the prisoners concerned. The new organization will be described in this chapter. The following chapters deal with “the Hell of Dora” between September 1943 and May 1944.
EDUARD WIRTHS. Born 1909. April 1942 troop physician in Dachau and in July 1942 in Neuengamme. Later he was station physician in Auschwitz, and as of February 1945 in Mittelbau. He surrendered to British authorities in May 1945 and committed suicide in captivity.
The Soviets having abandoned Buchenwald in early 1950, the GDR authorities were able to give some thought as to what to do with the site. Major work was carried out until 1958, culminating with today’s commemorative and monumental complex that makes up the memorial, the Nationale Mahn- und Gedenkstätte, “national place of exhortation and memory”—the largest in the country. It was solemnly inaugurated on September 14, 1958,6 by Otto Grotewohl, copresident of the SED (East German Communist Party) and head of the GDR government, in the presence of eighty thousand people. Investigations into the behavior of the “Roten Kapos” were over, and in 1959, Walter Bartel edited Buchenwald Mahnung und Verpflichtung.
After that it took only a few seconds to break out the machine guns, hand grenades and boxes of dynamite. Firing broke out, the SS stationed at one end of the room, the Sonderkommando at the other. A hand grenade tossed into the midst of the SS killed seven and wounded a number of others. Several kommando men were also killed or wounded, and the situation of the survivors was becoming increasingly desperate. But when a few more SS dropped, the remainder, about 20 in all, took to their heels and ran for the crematorium door. There they were met by reinforcements, more than enough to turn the tide of battle in their favor.
He was arrested in August 1942, went through Fresnes, Romainville, and Neuenbremme, and finally arrived in Buchenwald in October 1943, where he was assigned the identity number 30088. He was quickly sent to Dora and put on the tunnel excavation crew. He managed to hold up through sheer willpower as well as the protection of a group of young Ukrainians who were filled with respect for “Stari” (the old man). He was then sixty-two and had been unable to get himself recognized as a doctor.
As a result of this resistance, the German action on 1–2 October largely failed – most Jews were not at home when the Germans called. Out of the 7,500 or so Danish Jews, fewer than 500 were ever deported. Those that were captured by the Germans were sent not to the death camps of the east but to Theresienstadt concentration camp in Czech territory, and the majority survived the war.
The question as to the existence of concentration camps in the Soviet Union had been raised in 1947 by the publication in France of Kravtchenko’s book, I Chose Freedom—with considerable success. Accused of lying by the communist press, Kravtchenko had summoned Les Lettres françaises to appear in court. The trial had taken place from January to April 1949, and Kravtchenko won his case.
29 Andrzej Strzelecki, Auschwitz, 1940–1945: Central Issues in the History of the Camp, vol. 5: Epilogue, Auschwitz Birkenau State Museum, 2000, pp. 29–36.
Von Braun remained in close contact with Mittelwerk and sometimes went into the tunnel factory. One occasion is recalled in a letter he sent on August 15, 1944, to “Dear Mr. Sawatzski,” including, among other things, the following paragraphs: “During one of my latest visits to Mittelwerk, you spontaneously suggested that we take advantage of the good technical training of prisoners available to you and at Buchenwald to organize additional development work and construction in small units. On that occasion, you introduced me to a French physics professor and prisoner who has been working until now on checking mixing devices (Mischgeräte), who would be particularly capable of running such a production unit. I immediately accepted your proposal. Together with Dr. Simon, I went to Buchenwald to see other able prisoners, and as you suggested, managed to have Standartenführer Pister transfer them to Mittelwerk.”
Did this trouble him? Considering his actions in Riga and later in Stockholm, I’m inclined to say it must have, but De Decker was enough of a diplomat not to leave any written record of his objections or to express them openly. Another real possibility is that in 1940–1945 he was trying to make up for his serious failure to act in the 1930s. Unfortunately, De Decker had no surviving children who could tell us more; his second marriage remained childless. If he felt remorse, he did not leave behind any written evidence of it.
THE ORIGINS OF OPERATION OVERCAST. The Allied troops moving across Germany were followed by groups of experts dealing with a wide variety of curiosities. In chapter 3 the Rosenberg team, from the Psychological Warfare Division, has already been mentioned; they arrived at Buchenwald on April 16, 1945, to study the functioning of a concentration camp. Other teams made up of technical officers and civilian scientists were preoccupied with the state of advancement of German research in such domains as aeronautics, nuclear development, rockets, and medicine. They reported to an American-British organization called the CIOS (Combined Intelligence Objectives Subcommittee). There was, in the nuclear field, a mission known as Alsos. Dr. Porter’s Hermes group was in charge of the rockets.
The train carrying the French Jews reached Auschwitz on 30 March 1942, just a few days after the first transport carrying Slovak Jews had arrived at the camp. The French Jews, like the initial transports of Slovaks, were not selected on arrival and were admitted to the camp, but virtually all of them still perished in Auschwitz. More than 1,000 of them were dead within five months.
Max and his mother were unusual, because they survived the war. Most of the Jews from the Łódź ghetto sent to Auschwitz died there – including Mordechai Chaim Rumkowski. In the end all his collaboration, all his machinations, did not save him from the gas chamber. But, ultimately, what other realistic options did he have, other than to bow to German demands? His counterpart in Warsaw, Adam Czerniaków, killed himself when the deportations from the ghetto began, but that was of little help to his fellow Jews.
With this discouraging thought running through my mind, I completed my first day’s tour of the four crematoriums.
The Vrba–Wetzler report circulated in Budapest during May 1944. By late June the news had reached London and by early July the authorities in Washington had been informed. Armed with such authentic intelligence, a whole variety of people – from Roosevelt to the King of Sweden – protested to Admiral Horthy about the deportation of the Hungarian Jews. Even the Pope wrote to Horthy in a letter of 25 June, calling on him to reconsider his actions.44 Archbishop Gennaro Verolino, a papal diplomat in Budapest, remembers that even before the Vrba–Wetzler report had surfaced, ‘Gradually we came to the conclusion that “compulsory work abroad” meant deportation. And deportation meant extermination, annihilation. We then protested very vigorously, at first the nuncio himself, and then with the other diplomats.’45 The papal nuncio in Hungary gave up to 15,000 letters of safe conduct to Jews in Budapest. ‘It saved my life once,’ says Ferenc Wiener, a Hungarian Jew. ‘It saved my life when I showed it to a German officer. And they were executing all the others. I was next to be killed. I then showed my letter and the officer told me I could move on.’46 In the light of incidents like this, Gerhart Riegner, the wartime representative of the World Jewish Congress in Switzerland, maintains that the Vatican’s intervention in Hungary was ‘the only example in the history of the Holocaust where the Vatican systematically took the right decision.’47
The first is the heterogeneity of the concentration camp population. The Jews deported from Drancy and submitted to a selection upon their arrival at Auschwitz must first of all be distinguished from the mass of the deportees from Compiègne, themselves different from one another: Résistants or not, communists or “Gaullists,” hostages or victims of roundups, even various small-time offenders.
39 Testimony from Touched by Auschwitz, transmitted on BBC2, 20 January 2015, and previously unpublished testimony.
This series of convoys in the direction of Buchenwald, followed by still others in May and August, accounts for the large proportion of French who were in the camp at the time of the Liberation. But, above all, it accounts for the fact that Dora has occasionally been called the “French cemetery,” the deportees from various convoys very often having been sent to Dora, and then Ellrich and Harzungen. It was pointed out above, in chapter 1, that the Italian government of Badoglio had concluded an armistice with the Allies on September 8, 1943, and that the German troops had occupied Rome on the 12th. The SS then took control of the camps where Yugoslavian partisans were interned: given the zones annexed or occupied by Italy, these were Slovenians, Croatians from Dalmatia, and Montenegrins. Many of them arrived in Dora several weeks later, via Dachau and Buchenwald. With them came Italian soldiers, who had been disarmed and taken prisoner by the Germans in the Balkans or in Italy itself. They had, as will be seen, a special status without really being privileged.
Beginning in 1943 the number of Resistance fighters who were arrested increased, along with the number of roundups. Among those who arrived at Dora there was only a very small group of active communists while the others remained at Buchenwald when they were detected by the “Red” leaders in the camp who tried their best to spare them bad “transports.” In general, noncommunist Resistance leaders in the three convoys of January 1944, whether members of Parliament or not, also remained at Buchenwald. It was not until September 1944, amid the disorder following the bombing, that such leaders belonging to the “77,000” convoy were sent on to Dora. Yet this did not suffice to give a real structure to the French group from a political standpoint.
Meanwhile, Rousset was assigned to Neuengamme, which had just replaced Buchenwald as the main camp, which involved changing identity numbers. It must not be forgotten that at this time the convoys coming from Compiègne began to be directed toward Neuengamme. From Neuengamme, Rousset was sent to Helmstedt,25 where he remained until the evacuation. It was also a camp created by a Buchenwald Kommando and was put under Neuengamme’s jurisdiction.
After two weeks or so at Beaune-la-Rolande without their mothers, the children were sent to Drancy. By now their mothers had been deported to Auschwitz. At Drancy, Annette and her brother slept on the concrete floor of a half-finished flat and tried ‘not to slip on the stairway because there was so much excrement. We all had diarrhoea.’ Though she remembers that she saw some French police ‘cry’ at the plight of the children, the majority did their work ‘with a lot of zeal’.16
As we approached Moscow, I realised that she was following the same route, in the opposite direction, that she had taken with her parents in 1941 to escape the Shoah. She wanted to show her sons where she had come from, how Poland looked, how far it was from Australia, and what route she and her parents had taken to escape. Her husband, who wasn’t Jewish, had decided not to join them.
It is not hard to understand why the Wannsee conference is, in popular culture, considered the most important single meeting of the Holocaust – indeed, the moment at which the crime was finally decided upon. The evolution of the Holocaust is complex and occasionally counter-intuitive. How much simpler it would be if there was one key moment at which everything was resolved – if not a decision by Hitler in the autumn of 1941, then a meeting by a lake outside Berlin in January 1942. But it is a mistake to think that history happened that way. Wannsee was no more than a staging post along a journey.
Of the millions of souls sent here from the four corners of Europe, by order of the demented Führer, the pyromaniac of the Third Reich, to be assembled less than an hour before their death on unloading ramps ominously lighted by the butchers of Maydanek, Treblinka, Auschwitz, Birkenau, a few thousand would come out alive.
In his account, Birin talks of a “plot.” The word seems rather weak to describe the plan put together by Cespiva, according to Petit. The same Petit, according to Michel, explained that it was necessary to note exactly which tools would be required to cut down trees. At the chosen moment, the cut trees would crush the barbed wire in their fall. After 1945, works published in Czechoslovakia, East Germany, and Poland gave more scope to the uprising planned for December 24, 1944. “The rebels proposed, after massacring the SS at the garrison in Dora, to come and liberate Buchenwald. Then, by tens of thousands, the prisoners were supposed to go to Czechoslovakia to join the Soviet partisans.” The altogether extraordinary excesses of such a plan widely contributed to dismissing, after the fact, the already rather mad schemes of the 1944 plotters.
This formula was only temporary because the Ministry of Science and Culture of the Land of Thuringia itself designated in September 1991 a commission of experts presided over by the historian Eberhard Jäckel. Its role was to consider the renovations of the land’s commemorative sites—in other words, Buchenwald and, incidentally, Dora. It filed its conclusions in early 1992. It recommended that the exhibition dealing with the history of the Buchenwald concentration camp put an end to the partiality imposed by East German historiography. It also suggested that everything to do with the Speziallager 2, set up at Buchenwald by the Soviets between 1945 and 1950, be dealt with by a special museum clearly separated from the one devoted to the Nazi camp. (The necessary renovation work has now been carried out.) The commission of experts also visited Dora, looked carefully at the conservation of the camp and tunnels, and adopted Dr. Klose’s recommendations as laid out at a meeting of the European Committee on January 10, 1992, in Brussels.
So the recamier was built according to instructions. For me it had become an object of curiosity. I had followed all phases of its construction and seen it completed. I had watched them install the springs and cover them with elegant tapestries. Two French electricians had installed a bed lamp and arranged a niche for a radio. After it had been varnished it was quite handsome. In a small bourgeois home in Mannheim it would look even better than it did up in the uninviting crematorium loft. For the recamier was to be sent, at the end of the week, to Mussfeld’s home at Mannheim. There it would wait till the victorious Ober, back from the trying wars, could use it to rest his weary bones.
Dr Piper gives an additional figure of 34,000 Jews deported to Auschwitz from concentration camps and ‘unknown places’. It is also important to note that his original figure of 438,000 Jews from Hungary was subsequently revised to 430,000, and a Norwegian Royal Commission gives a more exact estimate for the number of Jews from Norway who died in Auschwitz, rather than were deported, at 747 (see here).
David Rousset22 arrived at Buchenwald in the third convoy from Compiègne in January 1944. One day in March he was part of the Max Eins transport; at the same time the Hannah transport left for Dora. Rousset and his friends were sent to inaugurate a camp at Porta Westfalica, a small town on the Weser River. The account of Rousset’s trajectory, up until his time at Wöbbelin in Mecklenburg in April–May 1945, is incorporated in the “novel” he published in 1947 entitled Les Jours de notre mort (The Days of Our Death). Indications already figured in his L’Univers concentrationnaire, written in 1945. As already seen in chapter 11, the headquarters of the Sonderstab Kammler’s Sonderinspektion I was established in Porta Westfalica. It was also the location of work site A 2, which was dependent on it. Rousset does not give any details about it because he did not stay long at Porta.
In late September 1944 a permanent crematorium, which is still in place today, was started up on the northern hillside near the block of tubercular patients from the Revier.
But for all this talk of ‘God’ there is no evidence that Hitler was a practising Christian – as we have already seen in the context of Mein Kampf.4 Indeed, he thought Christianity ‘an invention of sick brains’.5 The purpose of life, as he saw it, was for human beings to live and die for the ‘preservation of the species’.6 His personal task was to lead the German Volk towards a new world of prosperity and racial purity. In this endeavour he was helped by a mystical force he called ‘providence’. Memorably, in a speech he gave in 1936 he said that ‘neither threats nor warnings will divert me. I walk the way providence has assigned to me, with the instinctive sureness of a sleepwalker.’7
The situation is more complex to describe with regard to the Dora-Mittelbau complex. The Dora camp and factory were in Thuringia, as were Nordhausen and Harzungen, Bleicherode and Kleinbodungen. This was also the case for the city of Ellrich, but the demarcation line actually ran right through the Ellrich-Station camp. The heights including the crematorium and the hamlet of Juliushütte with the SS camp were located in the district of Walkenried and were, for this reason, in Lower Saxony in the British zone whereas the prisoners’ blocks were in Thuringia. In the same way, Wieda was located in Lower Saxony as were Osterhagen and Nüxei whereas Mackenrode and Günzerode were in Thuringia. Blankenburg, Rottleberode, Kelbra, Rossla, and Sangerhausen were all located in Saxony-Anhalt along with Langenstein and Stassfurt as well as Gardelegen.
30 Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2012, p. 13.
The purpose-built crematoria/gas chambers of Birkenau began their murderous work after the majority of Jews had died in the Holocaust. Around 1.1 million were killed in 1941 and 2.7 million in 1942.38 Most of these Jews died either in the Einsatzgruppen actions in the east, or in the Reinhard death camps within Poland. Auschwitz accounted for 200,000 deaths in 1942, a fraction of the total catalogue of murder. In 1943 the number of dead fell to 500,000 – with around half that number murdered in Auschwitz. The newly created murder machinery in Auschwitz Birkenau was thus functioning well below capacity. In part this reduced figure for 1943 reflected the difficulties that the Nazis encountered in finding and transporting Jews to the death camps once it became clear that the Germans were losing the war.
There was another consequence of this thinking. Prisoners in concentration camps did not serve a specific sentence – how could they when they had not necessarily committed any offence? Therefore no prisoner knew the date when they would be released. Maybe they would be released tomorrow – or maybe they would never be released. As one concentration camp commandant later said, ‘the uncertainty of the duration of their confinement was something with which they could never come to terms. It was this that wore them down and broke the strongest wills.’44
The events in Gunzenhausen were at the extreme end of the spectrum of anti-Semitic action against Jews during the first two years of Hitler’s Chancellorship. Nothing like this happened again in Bavaria until the attacks of Kristallnacht in 1938. But it remains instructive. It reveals, first of all, how spontaneous the attacks against the Jews could be. There is no evidence that this level of violence was pre-planned. If Kurt Bär had not lost his temper in a pub then it is hard to see how the attacks would have happened. But while Bär’s actions were the catalyst, the pogrom was only possible as a result of underlying tensions. The reason so many of the local population rose up in support of Bär was because they themselves were predisposed to hate Jews. It is also worth noting that Bär in his speech outside the pub focused on traditional Christian-based anti-Semitism. This part of Franconia was staunchly Protestant, and the content of Bär’s verbal attack on the Jews would have been familiar to Martin Luther.
Günther’s father, along with many other German Jews, remained convinced that it would be best for them all to remain at home, safe – as he saw it – within the Jewish community in Berlin. And, broadly speaking, the evidence around them from the summer of 1935 to the summer of 1937 seemed to support that view. Though there were still isolated actions against Jews, and regulations further excluding the Jews continued to be issued – for example, from October 1936 civil servants were banned from visiting Jewish doctors – there was no systematic mass violence against the German Jews. But what many took to be a sign of the regime settling down was merely a pause before the implementation of more radical measures.
On 10 May 1940, the Germans invaded another country that had, like Norway, Denmark, Luxembourg and Belgium, attempted to avoid the war by claiming neutrality. Three-quarters of the Jews of this country – the Netherlands – would be killed in the Holocaust: a greater proportion than in any other sizeable nation in western Europe. Just why about 75 per cent of Dutch Jews died in the Holocaust – compared to around 40 per cent of Belgian and Norwegian Jews and 25 per cent of French Jews – is a question that has long troubled historians, and some suggestions as to why there was this eventual disparity are made later in this book.14
Ida says she never felt ‘why me?’ as she tried to survive in Auschwitz. She always knew who was really guilty for her arrest and her subsequent suffering. And to this day, as a proud Frenchwoman, she has never forgotten the role her fellow countrymen played in facilitating the Nazis’ murderous assault on the Jews.30
75 Longerich, Holocaust, p. 315.
It was in the midst of this controversy, on 9 May, that Hans Beimler escaped from the camp. Not only did there appear to be a policy of extra-judicial murder in operation at Dachau, but the guards now seemed to be incompetent as well. By the end of the next month Wäckerle was gone. The new commandant, Theodor Eicke, would make his mark on Dachau, and indeed on the whole concentration camp system, in a way that Wäckerle never did.
12 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 230.
Hackett translated the entire text into English and wrote a long introduction. It was published by Frederick A. Praeger, whose father died in a camp after having been imprisoned at Buchenwald; in 1945, when he had arrived on location as an American officer, he looked for him in vain before meeting Rosenberg and Kogon in Frankfurt.
43 Filip Müller, Eyewitness Auschwitz: Three Years in the Gas Chambers, Ivan R. Dee, 1999, p. 121. Also quoted in part in van Pelt, Case for Auschwitz, p. 149.
Various Jewish groups suggested one practical response to the crime – drop bombs on the camp. The World Jewish Congress in Geneva called in June for the Americans to destroy the gas chambers, and Churchill, when he heard about the idea, wrote on 7 July to Anthony Eden: ‘Get anything out of the Air Force you can and invoke me if necessary.’2 But calls to bomb Auschwitz were ultimately rejected. In Britain the Air Ministry was unenthusiastic about the idea for practical reasons. One problem was the difficulty of bombing the gas chambers while avoiding killing many of the prisoners at Birkenau. The British suggested that the request be considered by the Americans, who specialized in daytime bombing. On behalf of the Americans, John McCloy, the Assistant Secretary of War, was dismissive. He expressed doubts about the feasibility of the plan, and said that in any case it would divert bombers from other, more important operations.3
Buchenwald, a Large Camp, Typical of the Concentration Camp System
The second person who witnessed the gassing experiment that January, and who would later participate in the Holocaust, could not have been more different from Dr Eberl in age, education and life experience. Christian Wirth was fifty-five years old when he was appointed administrative director of the euthanasia centre in Brandenburg. As a young man he had trained as a carpenter before becoming a policeman. He won an Iron Cross in the First World War and after Germany’s defeat joined the Nazi party while still pursuing his career in the police force. Immensely tough and practical, Wirth was a fearsome figure. His behaviour was so infamous that he came to be known as the ‘wild Christian’. Once involved with T4, he had no qualms about participating in the killing process directly – he once personally shot four women patients who had been sent to a euthanasia centre and were thought to have typhus. He told those who worked for him that the ‘mentally ill’ were a ‘burden on the state’ and so had to be eliminated. One of those under Wirth’s command described him simply as ‘a beast’.56 Franz Stangl, another policeman who joined the adult euthanasia programme and who would later go on to command a death camp, described Wirth as ‘a gross and florid man. My heart sank when I met him.’ Wirth spoke with ‘awful verbal cruelty’: ‘He spoke of “doing away with useless mouths” and said that “sentimental slobber” about such people “made him puke”.’57 Wirth and Eberl, who worked together at Brandenburg killing centre in early 1940, would meet again two years later in the occupied east in even more appalling circumstances.
Now my comrades were lying naked in long rows, in front of the cremation ovens. One after the other I identified the bodies of those I knew; at least they had died believing that freedom was only around the corner. They had been brought back on pushcarts from the spot where they had fallen, somewhere inside the outer line of guards. Those who had been executed in the courtyard as we were walking away were also here. After all resistance had been crushed, the bodies had been removed from number two, three and four crematoriums and brought for cremation to number one, which was manned by thirty new, hastily recruited Sonderkommando men.
“Konzentrationslager Buchenwald”
Central to Eichmann’s plan for the deportation of the Jews in Hungary was the role of Auschwitz. This place was not the crude ‘solution’ to the Nazis’ ‘Jewish problem’ that had been offered by the Reinhard camps. No, the complex of camps at Auschwitz offered a multifaceted answer to the perennial Nazi question of how to deal with the Jews. Part of that, as we have seen, was the sense of permanence of the place, and the development of a more efficient killing process during 1943 with the opening of four new crematoria/gas-chamber complexes at Birkenau. But there were also more recent ‘improvements’. It was only now, for example, that a railway spur was completed that allowed new arrivals to enter under an arch in the red-brick guardhouse of Birkenau directly into the camp. Previously the arrival ramp had been close to the main railway line, roughly halfway between Auschwitz main camp and Birkenau. But with the new railway track inside Birkenau the journey to the crematoria and gas chambers for those selected to die was just a few minutes’ walk. It had taken four years for Auschwitz to evolve to this point, but the images of Auschwitz Birkenau from this short period of a few months have become emblematic not just of Auschwitz but of the entire Holocaust – to a large extent because photographs taken by the SS of the arrival of a transport of Hungarian Jews at Birkenau survived the war.
57 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 207.
Enormous numbers of Jews were sent from Greece to Auschwitz – altogether around 55,000. The majority of them were murdered immediately, and the survival rate of the rest within the camp was notoriously low. The Greek Jews found the harshness of the Polish climate hard to take and few of them spoke German, the language in which all commands in the camp were spoken.
At Auschwitz, after the Hungarian transports had stopped in early July, and the majority of the Łódź ghetto Jews had been murdered a few weeks later, the peak period of killing was over. As a result, the SS decided to reduce the number of Sonderkommandos in the camp from the high point of 900 reached at the time of the Hungarian transports to a much lower figure. They planned to do this by murdering surplus Sonderkommandos. ‘We knew that our days were always numbered and we didn’t know when the end would be,’ says Dario Gabbai, one of the Sonderkommando at Birkenau. The Nazis, especially in the light of the publicity about Majdanek, did not want any Sonderkommandos to survive the war. They knew too much about the intimate details of the killing process. So at the end of September, SS Scharführer (Sergeant Major) Busch asked for 200 ‘volunteers’ from the Sonderkommandos at Crematorium IV to come forward. He claimed that they would be transported to a new camp. But the Sonderkommandos were aware that the number of transports to the camp had been tailing off, and had no doubt what that meant for their own fate. ‘Was Busch really so naïve, I thought,’ wrote Filip Müller, one of the Auschwitz Sonderkommando, ‘to believe any one of us would volunteer for his own slaughter?’9 Not surprisingly, no one came forward. So Scharführer Busch was forced to pick the 200 Sonderkommandos himself. Of course, there was no ‘new camp’ and the selected prisoners were taken away and killed. That night – in an unprecedented event – the SS themselves burnt the bodies of the Sonderkommandos in crematoria ovens away from the eyes of the other prisoners. Their excuse was that they were burning the bodies of people killed in an Allied bombing raid. The remaining Sonderkommandos were not deceived, and their suspicions about the fate of their comrades were confirmed when several of the bodies were found in the ovens the next morning, burnt but still recognizable. As a consequence, when the SS told the Kapos at the crematoria to come up with a list of 300 more Sonderkommandos who were allegedly to be transferred to ‘rubber factories’, the Sonderkommandos decided to launch an uprising.10
Communism, in concentration camps
NEXT DOOR TO THE SS LIVING QUARTERS, on the second story of number two crematorium, was a carpenter’s shop, where three carpenters plied their trade, fulfilling any and all requests that were sent to them. For the moment they were busy filling a “private order.” Oberchaarführer Mussfeld, taking advantage of the opportunity, had ordered the carpenters to make him a “recamier,” a sort of double bed that could also serve as a large sofa. It was to be completed as quickly as possible.
A medical team was working in the barracks in Schwerin with Dr. Ségelle, who had been in the evacuation first from Ellrich to Oranienburg and then from Sachsenhausen to Schwerin. Grand and Besançon were with him.
The situation was altogether different in the Haukohl Kommando, whose Oberkapo was Georg Finkenzeller, a Green and, incidentally, a veteran of the French Foreign Legion. He was first interned in Mauthausen before being sent to the Wiener Neustadt Kommando, which he ruled by terror. When he was transferred to Buchenwald at the end of November 1943 he did not come to Dora with the other prisoners. At the time the prisoners thought that those in charge of Buchenwald would have him eliminated due to his behavior, but he turned up again a few months later at Dora, having been promoted after who knows what sort of scheming.
Work was accelerated during the night, so that by morning all that remained of the convoy was a pile of dirty, disheveled clothes in the crematorium courtyard. I gazed sadly at the hill of rags which, little by little, grew wet and soggy beneath a fine autumn rain. Glancing upward, I noticed that the four lightning rods placed at the corners of the crematorium chimneys were twisted and bent, the result of the previous night’s high temperatures.
THE AUTONOMY OF THE DORA-MITTELBAU CAMP. In the autumn of 1944, Dora ceased being an outside camp dependent on Buchenwald to become an autonomous camp. More precisely, a decision dated September 30 transformed Arbeitslager Dora into Konzentrationslager Mittelbau. It went into effect on November 1, instead of October 1 as initially planned.
HANS MÖSER. Born 1906. Trained businessman, member of the Nazi Party from 1929, SS from 1931. In 1939 was a member of SS in camps Hinzert, Neuengamme, and Auschwitz. Transferred end of April 1944 as 2nd and later as 1st commandant of protective custody camp in Dora. Sentenced to death in 1947 Dachau Dora trial; executed in November 1948.
13 Zuccotti, Italians and the Holocaust, pp. 235–6.
As has already been indicated, it was not until April–May of 1944 that a real, properly organized camp came into being in the valley of Dora. It was, however, primarily a sort of small dormitory city for the prisoners working in the nearby tunnel factory and the corresponding maintenance departments. At the same time the Sonderstab Kammler (see chapter 11) launched a series of work sites in the surrounding area and opened new camps. The workforce generally came from Buchenwald and sometimes passed through the Dora camp, where some prisoners stayed for a while. Sick patients received care at Dora, where there was also a crematorium. The entire group remained, however, under the authority of Buchenwald.
“At division headquarters, they thought it would be enough to change the guard of the camp. Everyone presumed that the concentration camp had an orderly administration and that the Germans would continue to take care of it, along with supplying food, medicine and medical care, until the arrival of a duly equipped detachment a few days later. No one in the hierarchy, from the general down to the lowest-ranking soldier, had any idea of what a German concentration camp was like, particularly Bergen-Belsen in the state in which we found it.”
The End of Sachsenhausen
Eugene Leviné even recalls that some Nazi Stormtroopers had Jewish girlfriends – a claim that might seem outlandish were it not for the fact that in the 1920s Joseph Goebbels, who would later become close to Hitler and offer enthusiastic support for the Holocaust, also had a girlfriend with Jewish ancestry. Goebbels, active in the Nazi party from 1924, dated a schoolteacher called Else who had a Jewish mother. He claimed that he had loved Else, and said she was ‘good and beautiful’. But he was also anxious about her background, writing in his diary that the ‘Jewish spirit in part of Else’s nature has often tormented and depressed me’.34 The fundamental problem, as far as he was concerned, was that she was a ‘half-breed’.35
4 Susan Zuccotti, The Italians and the Holocaust: Persecution, Rescue and Survival, University of Nebraska Press, 1996, p. 81.
The C Camp inmates had lived for four months in the shadow of the crematorium gate: it took ten days for all of them to pass through it. Forty-five thousand tormented bodies rendered up their souls there. Upon C Camp, whose wire stands had enclosed as many poignant tragedies, a dismal silence descended.
Scarcely an hour out of Krakau the train ground to a halt before a station of some importance. Signs in Gothic letters announced it as “Auschwitz,” a place which meant nothing to us, for we had never heard of it.
Unlike Auschwitz, Bełżec was solely a place of murder. The camp had a singularity of purpose that Auschwitz always lacked. That, of course, explains why Bełżec could be so small. There was no need for space given that virtually all of the people who arrived at the camp would be dead within a matter of hours. Equally, since there was a finite number of people that the Nazis wanted to kill, a specialized death camp like Bełżec would inevitably have a finite period of existence. Unlike Auschwitz, which was planned as a near-permanent feature of Nazi rule, Bełżec was a temporary place. Many of the structures at Auschwitz were built of solid brick, those at Bełżec mostly of wood. All of the specialized death camps would have a transient feel to them – places that were botched together.
Not wanting to witness that daily scene, I generally withdrew to the most remote corner of the crematorium courtyard, where I sat down under an arbor of pines. The crackling of the revolvers and the screams were deadened by the time they reached me.
45 Wim Willems, In Search of the True Gypsy: From Enlightenment to Final Solution, Routledge, 2013, p. 251.
The French prisoners at Buchenwald entered a new phase with the virtually simultaneous arrival of two trains in May 1944, the second of which had made a detour via Auschwitz. Among the prisoners was Marcel Paul, who managed to establish ties with the German communists and with the noncommunist leaders of the French Resistance.
In the Auschwitz KZ the healthiest individual was given three or four weeks to collapse from hunger, filth, blows and inhuman labor. How can one describe the state of those who were already organically ill when they reached the camp? In circumstances where it was difficult to forget that one was a human being, and a doctor besides, they practiced their profession with complete devotion. Their example was faithfully followed by the subaltern medical corps, which was composed of six doctors. They were all young French or Greek doctors. For three years they had been eating the KZ bread made from wild chestnuts sprinkled with sawdust. Their wives, their children, their relatives and friends had been liquidated upon arrival. Or rather, burned. If by chance they had been directed to the right-hand column they had been unable to stand up under the ordeal for more than two or three months and, as the “chosen,” had disappeared into the flames.
GANDERSHEIM AND ASCHERSLEBEN. The column that made the longest journey on foot before arriving at the border of Saxony was the one that left Gandersheim on April 4 and was unable to reach Buchenwald. The conditions of that evacuation have been described in detail in the book L’Espèce humaine by Robert Antelme,25 mentioned earlier. It would be impossible to take extracts from this account, which runs from page 213 to page 306; the entire passage would have to be quoted.
The block was first and foremost a dormitory, and the role of the Blockältester and the Stubendienst was to enforce discipline and cleanliness. Some of them took advantage of their authority in the long-standing concentration camp tradition to become overzealous regarding muddy shoes or the alignment of blankets. This was one of the ways prisoners were terrorized at the Breendonck fort in Belgium; but at Dora, the authorities rarely went that far.
Such testimony reminds us that it was not just men who abused prisoners in the camps, women participated in the mistreatment as well. Known as Aufseherinnen, ‘female overseers’, a number of women were used as guards in camps such as Majdanek and Auschwitz – their appearance coinciding with the arrival of female prisoners. Himmler never gave the Aufseherinnen full SS status, although they nonetheless held the power of life and death over the inmates. But women only ever made up a small percentage of the overall garrison of these particular camps – there were just twenty-eight during the period of operation of Majdanek, for instance, and fewer than 10 per cent of concentration camp guards were women across the whole Nazi system during the war.44
45. Crematorium III at Auschwitz (Archival Collection of the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum in Oświęcim)
“They may have since been sent on to another camp,” he said. Suddenly I thought of the crematorium smoke: perhaps they had since been dispatched with that smoke to some celestial camp. Dr. Mengele, who was seated, his head bent forward, seemed lost in thought. I remained standing behind him.
HELMUT BISCHOFF. Counterintelligence and countersabotage officer for the V-2 rocket program, and SD commander. Born 1908. Entered Nazi Party in March 1930 and the SS in 1935; assigned to the Gestapo. Commanded various Staatspolizei units, 1935–1943; also led an Einsatzkommando in Poland in 1939. In December 1943 took over as the Armaments Ministry’s representative on Hans Kammler’s SS construction staff, in which he was responsible for counterintelligence and counter-sabotage within the V-2 production program. In February 1945 took over as commander of the Security Service (SD) within the Mittelbau reservation; responsible for spying on, torturing, and executing prisoners. Captured by the Soviets in 1946, held in Buchenwald, then sent to Siberia. Returned to Germany, 1955; arrested in 1967; declared unfit to stand trial and released in 1970.
Hitler’s intense loathing of the disabled – particularly the mentally disabled – was on show that autumn during a meeting attended by Hans Lammers, head of the Reich Chancellery and Hitler’s closest legal adviser. At the Nuremberg trials after the war, Lammers testified: ‘On this occasion, the Führer discussed, in my presence for the first time, the problem of euthanasia. He explained that he thought it fit to remove “life unworthy of life” – that is the lives of the seriously mentally ill – through medical intervention causing death. He mentioned, if I recall correctly, by way of example, serious mental illnesses in which mentally ill people could only sleep on sand or sawdust because they would soil themselves constantly – cases in which these sick people would eat their own excrement as food. And he explained how it was the right thing to end this “life unworthy of life”. He also explained how through this, there could be savings in the cost of hospitals, doctors and nursing staff.’46
They had been told, before being sent back here, that they would be sent for a cure to a rest camp. Half an hour later I saw their blood-spattered bodies lying in front of the crematorium ovens. “Freedom through work!” “Rest camp!” How diabolic can one get? And that is just one of many examples. To cite another: during the months of June and July thousands of postcards were distributed to the inmates of overcrowded barracks, with instructions that they be sent to friends or acquaintances of the prisoners. It was strictly specified that the cards should in no circumstances be headed either “Auschwitz” or “Birkenau,” but “Am Waldsee,” which is a resort town located not far from the Swiss border. The cards were duly sent, and numerous replies came back. I saw these replies burned, some 50,000 of them according to reliable reports, on a pyre set up in the middle of the crematorium courtyard. To have distributed them to the addressees was quite out of the question, for the latter had preceded the former, that is, the addressees had been burned before the letters. That is the way the matter had been arranged. The purpose of this little scheme had been to allay the fears of the public at large and put an end to the rumors that were rife concerning camps like Auschwitz.
This was undoubtedly a decision taken in the weeks and months after the Wannsee conference, rather than the implementation of a decision taken at Wannsee or before. We know this partly because of the physical changes that were needed at the two existing specialized death camps with fixed gas chambers. Neither Bełżec nor Sobibór had the capacity to murder the numbers of Jews that Himmler now imagined. Only at this point were both expanded. At Bełżec all transports were temporarily suspended in June while larger gas chambers were built which would allow just over a thousand people to be murdered simultaneously. In the second week of July, transports began again, just in time to fulfil Himmler’s programme of expansion. Similarly, at Sobibór there was a halt in the extermination programme – this time at the end of July. This was partly to allow repairs to be made to the railway line that transported Jews to the camp, but also to enlarge the existing gas chambers. Killing capacity now increased from 600 people at a time within the gas chambers to 1,200. Most significantly of all, an entirely new extermination camp at Treblinka – close to the main railway line to Warsaw, 60 miles away to the south-west – opened on 23 July just four days after Himmler’s announcement. More Jews would eventually be murdered at Treblinka than at any other camp with the exception of Auschwitz.
20 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 91.
The vast majority of prisoners, as has already been pointed out, was composed of newcomers to the concentration camp system, but the supervisory staff, the Prominente, were all veterans of Buchenwald who knew the rules and customary practices of the system. They were mainly Germans, both Reds and Greens, and in order to be selected on high by the authorities, at least tacit agreement on the part of the SS commanders of both the camps and the political authorities of the Buchenwald camp was necessary.
Nevertheless, I saw that a group of men in civilian clothes was lining up in the crematorium courtyard, directly in front of the red-brick building: there were about 200 in all, with an SS guard in front. It looked to me like a roll call, and I assumed that this was the night watch being relieved by the oncoming day watch. For the crematoriums ran on a twenty-four-hour schedule, as I learned from a fellow prisoner, who also informed me that the crematorium personnel were known as the Sonderkommando, which means, merely, kommandos assigned to special work. They were well fed and given civilian clothes. They were never permitted to leave the grounds of the crematorium, and every four months, when they had learned too much about the place for their own good, they were liquidated. Till now such had been the fate of every Sonderkommando since the founding of the KZ; this explains why no one had ever escaped to tell the world what had been taking place inside these grim walls for the past several years.
For one thing, I planned to tell him that none of the crematorium rooms was suitable as a dissecting room, for the simple reason that, no matter where you happened to be here, you could not escape the heart-rending screams of the deported on their way to death, screams that pierced to the very marrow of your bones. Whether it was the gas chamber or a bullet in the neck, the screams were the same. It was impossible for me to concentrate properly on my work here. Since the day of my arrival, when I had learned the fate of the eleven preceding kommandos, I had lived in a world of constant dread: four months of nerve-racking tension, waiting, day by day, for the moment when our kommando would meet with the same fate.
Given that the Dora camp itself, including its annexes, was no doubt the most perfected expression of this transformation, it struck me as necessary, having read the testimonies of my fellow French, Belgian, Dutch, Czech, and Slovenian prisoners, to point out clearly the particular characteristics of this period as well as the complexity of what had been observed. My ambition was to replace the somewhat static picture of the concentration camp phenomenon with a narrative that both takes account of the chronology and integrates it into the history of the final period of the Nazi regime, that of its decline and collapse.
21 Robert Jay Lifton, The Nazi Doctors: Medical Killing and the Psychology of Genocide, Basic Books, 2000, p. 29.
Sachsenhausen
Chapter 21 shows the consequences of the Soviet offensive on the prisoners in Sachsenhausen and Ravensbrück.
Another message, exactly the same, was buried in the courtyard of number two crematorium.
14 The End of Auschwitz and Peenemünde
I grabbed my instrument case, which was always ready, and dashed to the gas chamber. Against the wall, near the entrance of the immense room, half covered with other bodies, I saw a girl in the throes of a deathrattle, her body seized with convulsions. The gas kommando men around me were in a state of panic. Nothing like this had ever happened in the course of their horrible career.
Aside from the transport corresponding to convoys from France, French prisoners with quite varied matriculation numbers were sent from Buchenwald to Dora in small groups, especially after the August 24, 1944, bombing that destroyed the Gustloff factory.
The crematorium’s heavy gates were also open. Not a guard in sight. I glanced quickly at the watch towers. For the first time in months they were empty. I ran back to wake up my companions. We dressed in haste and got ready for the great journey. The SS had fled. We would not stay here a minute longer, here where for eight months Death had lain in wait for us every minute of every hour. We could not wait for the Russians, since we risked falling into the hands of the SS rear guard, who would not hesitate to execute us. Luckily we had excellent clothing—sweaters, overcoats, shoes—which meant a great deal, for the temperature was at least 10 below zero. We each took a two-pound can of food, and filled our pockets with medicines and cigarettes.
46 Previously unpublished testimony. Also see Rees, Auschwitz, p. 108.
This strategy on the part of the SS was dictated neither by pity nor a regard for those condemned to death, but merely by their desire to expedite a large group of people, without any unnecessary incidents or delays, to the gas chambers, guarded by a relatively small patrol. The strategy worked to perfection. Everything went off as planned. Throughout the night the chimneys of numbers one and two crematoriums sent flames roaring skyward, so that the entire camp was lighted with a sinister glow.
For Mengele, Auschwitz was an enormous medical playground. He could devise whatever medical experiments he liked in pursuit of his ‘racial’ research, limited only by his imagination. His special interest was always genetics, and how genes were passed on within families – he was thus particularly keen to experiment on twins. Vera Alexander, a Kapo who looked after twins selected by Mengele, recalls how they often returned to the block screaming with pain after his attentions. Having observed him at close quarters, she says that she simply cannot ‘understand his cruelty’.3 The overwhelming advantage for Dr Mengele of studying twins was that once an experiment had been completed on one twin, both could be murdered and their bodies dissected to compare the two. As Dr Miklós Nyiszli, a prisoner who assisted Dr Mengele, said, ‘Where, under normal circumstances, can one find twin brothers who die at the same place and at the same time?’ But at Auschwitz ‘there were several hundred sets of twins, and therefore as many possibilities of dissection.’4
22. Klein, D’Auschwitz à Gross Rosen et Buchenwald, pp. 507–10.
I also benefited from the chance to discuss this period of history a few years ago with many of the world’s other leading thinkers on Nazism and the Holocaust for my educational website WW2History.com. They include Professor Omer Bartov, Professor Christopher Browning, Professor Sir Richard Evans, Professor Norbert Frei, Professor Richard Overy and Professor Adam Tooze. I also make special mention of Professor David Cesarani, who worked with me on my Auschwitz project. David and I shared many lively discussions about the Holocaust in particular and the world in general. His death in October 2015 robbed the world of a great scholar.
Jean Doucet,39 a medical student and nurse at Buchenwald, then at Dora, was in Ravensbrück at the time of the camp evacuation. Two hundred sick prisoners could not be moved. He remained with them in the company of Dr. Ximenes and waited for the arrival of the Russian tanks.
THREE DAYS LATER I RETURNED TO C Camp to check and make certain my wife and daughter had indeed departed. They were gone all right, with one of the two convoys consisting of 3,000 prisoners. I did not know what the future might hold in store for them, but I was nevertheless relieved, for here they were headed towards certain death. Now, with a little luck, they might escape with their lives. Indications that the war was drawing to a close were becoming increasingly evident. The Third Reich’s grave was already being dug. I had a feeling that, at this point in the game, a prisoner’s chances of survival were roughly proportional to his distance from camps such as Auschwitz. Which meant that my own chances were growing slimmer every day.
Kabáč says he had a ‘good life’ in the Hlinka Guard: ‘We had a good salary, accommodation and canteen. We could not complain.’ The guards also had the opportunity to steal the possessions of the Jews. Kabáč himself admits he stole a pair of shoes. ‘When the Jews came to the camps we used to take their belongings and clothes,’ he says. ‘All Jews had to show us their belongings and the guards took the more valuable things from them.’46 Kabáč is relaxed about his role in the Holocaust. ‘I was not transporting them to the gas chambers! I was only transporting them to the Polish borders where Germans took over the transport. God knew where they were transported afterwards.’47
At 2:00 P.M. a truckload of political SS arrived at number three crematorium. Their commander ordered the Sonderkommando to assemble, but no one moved. He must have had an inkling of what was brewing. In any event, he apparently figured he would get better results if he tried lying to the Sonderkommando, and God knows the SS were past masters in the art of lying. Stopping in the center of the courtyard, he gave a short speech, worthy of the SS:
While they waited for the new crematorium to be built at Birkenau, the SS at Auschwitz conceived a stop-gap measure – one designed not just to increase the number of prisoners who could be gassed, but to ensure that the murders could be conducted in greater privacy. In a remote corner of Birkenau, far away from any other habitation, the SS bricked up the windows of a small cottage – known as the ‘Little Red House’ or ‘Bunker I’ – and converted two rooms inside so that they could be used as gas chambers. High up in the walls of the cottage they fashioned hatches, through which they could throw Zyklon B crystals. It was a primitive killing machine, but unlike the gas chamber within the crematorium in the main camp, here no one would hear the screams of the Jews as they were asphyxiated. But while the SS had solved one of their problems, they had created another – how to dispose of the dead. Bodies from the Little Red House could not be burnt in the ovens of a crematorium as there was not one near by. The only answer appeared to be to bury them in pits, but that was labour intensive and a potential health hazard for both the inmates and the SS – especially since the ground at Birkenau had notoriously bad drainage.
Birin (frère), Seize Mois de bagne, Buchenwald-Dora (Épernay: Dautelle, 1947).
This is not to say that Hitler was not the individual most responsible for the crime. Unquestionably he was. As the world’s leading expert on Adolf Hitler says: ‘No Hitler, no Holocaust’.64 Without Hitler this crime could not have happened in the way it did. At key moments he demonstrably intervened to make the process still more extreme.65 No one who studies this history can conclude anything other than that Hitler was primarily responsible for the Holocaust. But – partly because of the way the Nazi regime functioned – many, many others have to take part of the blame as well.
56 Cesarani, Final Solution, p. 339.
Hitler had similar problems with another ally in the spring of 1943 – Bulgaria. The official communiqué after the meeting between Hitler and King Boris of Bulgaria on 3 April stated that they had ‘a long and cordial talk’, which was characterized by ‘the spirit of traditional friendship’ that existed between Germany and Bulgaria.14 But the reality was that the Bulgarians, like the Romanians and Hungarians, were wavering in their support – especially over the question of the Jews. In February 1943, Alexander Belev, the Bulgarian government’s Commissar for the Jewish Question, had agreed with Eichmann’s representative, Theodor Dannecker, that the Bulgarians would hand over 20,000 Jews to the Germans. Just like the French, the Bulgarian authorities found it much more acceptable to offer up Jews who were not Bulgarian citizens. The Bulgarians knew – or at least must have strongly suspected – that they were sending these Jews to their deaths, especially in the wake of the public statements of the Allies the previous December about the Nazis’ extermination programme. Notwithstanding this knowledge, towards the end of March 1943 the Bulgarians cooperated in the deportation of around 11,000 Jews from the Bulgarian-occupied territory of Thrace and Macedonia. Virtually every single one of these Jews perished in the gas chambers of Treblinka.
All the replacements for these key positions within the Nazi state were either more compliant than their predecessors or more bellicose – or both. Ribbentrop, the former ambassador to Great Britain, became Foreign Minister, the obliging Walther von Brauchitsch took over from Fritsch as head of the army, and Hitler replaced Blomberg himself, abolishing the title of Minister of War. There is no evidence that Hitler planned to make every one of these changes in the wake of the Hossbach meeting, but he did seize on various opportunities, such as Blomberg’s inopportune marriage, when they were presented to him. As a result of these moves his ability to push forward with a more radical foreign policy was considerably strengthened.
10 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, p. 177.
The workshops transferred to the north part of the Dora Tunnel, evacuated by Mittelwerk on Kammler’s orders, were known as Nordwerk Niedersachswerfen. They did not use concentration camp manpower but rather a largely foreign labor force (5,000 workers as opposed to 500 German civilians) with whom the Mittelwerk prisoners were not supposed to have any contact.
One of these problems—a banal one—had to do with the existence of a large prisoner population spread out over several sites. These prisoners—whether political or criminal—had dossiers that went with them and were kept up to date by the camp’s Politische Abteilung. Moreover, the SS and the Gestapo inspected the internal workings of the camp to prevent the prisoners from organizing among themselves in any way that could become worrisome. Informers were one of the realities of concentration camp life, and their “accidental” elimination was sometimes a necessity for the “political” leaders in charge. On top of which, at Dora, prisoners who were working on the manufacture of secret weapons and could engage in sabotage were kept under strict surveillance. The SS commander of the camp was—as has been shown—on the board of directors of the Mittelwerk Company, where he was in charge of security.
7 Robert van Voren, Undigested Past: The Holocaust in Lithuania, Rodopi, 2011, p. 27. Around 13.5 per cent of those deported to the Soviet Union were Jews – a disproportionately high number compared to the proportion of Jews in the overall population.
Claessens and his comrades would later join up with their fellow Belgians in Harzungen. Kommando 32 was transferred to the Boelcke Kaserne of Nordhausen in January 1945. At Dora there was still a whole population about whom very little is known, for it would seem to have been composed mainly of Russians and Poles sent in as reinforcements when deportees stopped arriving from the West, except for a few transfers from Buchenwald. Neander43 has shown that from October 1944 to March 1945 the population of Dora grew perceptibly, whereas it was stable at Ellrich and Harzungen. This increase was used to maintain the head count among workers at the B 11 site and in the tunnel Transportkolonnen.
34 Christopher Browning, The Origins of the Final Solution, Heinemann, 2004, pp. 89–93.
In July 1944, Israel Abelesz experienced first hand how Auschwitz impacted on the Hungarian Jews. He and his family arrived at Auschwitz Birkenau in a freight train after several days’ journey from western Hungary. His train travelled down the new railway spur, under the archway in the guardhouse, directly into the camp. The doors were opened and everyone was ordered out of the wagons. ‘We were told just the people should get out,’ he says, ‘and they should leave their luggage behind – the luggage will be distributed later.’ He remembers that while ‘everything went so fast’, the arrival process still seemed well organized. ‘The prisoners who came out to receive us,’ he says, ‘they brought water. So everybody who was thirsty could drink water.’ He believes this was so that the new arrivals would not get ‘panicky’. ‘We just asked them,’ he says, “what is it here?” They said, “It’s a labour camp.” ’14
The Czechs became part of the Deutsches Reich when the Bohemian-Moravian protectorate was proclaimed on March 15, 1939. Hence the Czech prisoners wearing a red triangle with a T could belong to any category, including that of common-law prisoners. There were a number of these at Dora, but the vast majority of Czechs were former partisans. Despite the traditionally large size of their party, there were not many Czech communists at Dora; they stayed, well organized, at Buchenwald.
However, even knowing that the chances of a successful uprising were slim to non-existent, on 7 October 1944 the Sonderkommandos at Crematoria IV turned on their SS guards. They fought with axes and hammers against SS armed with guns, and managed to set the crematorium on fire. Hearing the noise coming from Crematorium IV, the Sonderkommandos at Crematorium II also attacked their SS overseers, killing two of them – even throwing one into a burning furnace. SS reinforcements arrived and started to hunt down any prisoners who had managed to escape the perimeter of the camp. When they found some Sonderkommandos hiding inside a barn they set it on fire. Not one of the Sonderkommandos who rose up against the SS that day survived the attempted escape. Around 250 Sonderkommandos had taken part in the revolt and the SS made sure every single one of them died. But the revenge of the SS did not stop there. In an attempt to terrorize the remaining Sonderkommandos they selected a further 200 and killed them as well.11 Henryk Mandelbaum, one of the Auschwitz Sonderkommando, remembers that they ‘told us to lie face down on the ground holding our hands behind our backs and every third person was shot. Some of my friends in the Sonderkommando lost their lives and the rest had to go back to work. There was never much hope for us. I’m telling it like it is.’12 Despite enduring this ordeal himself, and witnessing the death of so many of his comrades, Henryk Mandelbaum still feels that those who fought back ‘did a good thing’ because ‘we were the living dead, you have to remember. Now we’re speaking freely, peacefully and we can have assumptions, we can pose questions, we can add, we can subtract, but then it was very different. Human beings were condemned …’13
Lucien Fayman4 was transferred directly from Buchenwald to Woffleben on April 1, 1944, where he met up with Wolf Wexler and Coty. They were moved to Harzungen in mid-April. Guy Marty, who arrived at Harzungen from Buchenwald on April 26, was at Ellrich from May 2 on. As far as the French were concerned, it was thus above all the deportees from the third convoy of January who were the first to arrive at Harzungen and at Ellrich. Other deportees from this same convoy, as seen in chapter 9, then worked on building the Dora camp.
The outbreak of war did not just bring increased suffering to Jews and Poles. Other categories of people who had been targeted in the past by the Nazis were also at much greater risk – most notably the mentally and physically disabled. The way in which they were now treated would, in turn, have an impact on the development of the Holocaust.
Dr Mengele and his activities have dominated the public memory about the corruption of medical ideals at Auschwitz. And it is not hard to see why. Mengele was thirty-two years old when he arrived at Auschwitz, a handsome, decorated veteran of the war. He was undoubtedly brave – he had won the Iron Cross for rescuing two soldiers from a burning tank – and he was always perfectly turned out. Survivors often remark, for instance, on his immaculate uniform and his beautifully polished boots. He was the opposite of the caricature image of the sweating, red-faced SS killer.
92 Longerich, Holocaust, p. 115.
Kogon notes that this team, under the direction of Lt. Albert G. Rosenberg, was made up of Max M. Kimenthal, Richard Akselrad, Alfred H. Sampson, and Ernest S. Biberfeld. Slightly more is known about Lieutenant Rosenberg, thanks to Semprun’s recollections in L’Écriture ou la vie.8 Semprun was one of his sources in the camp—naturally in German. It was Rosenberg who brought those who lived in Weimar to visit Buchenwald. It was he who, on Saint George’s Day, brought Semprun to see Goethe’s summerhouse on the banks of the Ilm, in the vicinity of Weimar. Rosenberg was a twenty-six-year-old Jewish Berliner who had emigrated to the United States in 1933 with his family. Though he had become an American, he remained very immersed in German culture. One can assume, going by their names, that the other members of his group were also Jews of similar origin.
Helmstedt was in Simpson’s path, Dora was in Hodges’s, and Buchenwald in Patton’s. On April 4, Simpson was at Hameln, Hodges at Kassel, and Patton at Gotha. The evacuation operations of the threatened camps began. They were the first camps to be evacuated in the west.
During that same year, 1922, a twenty-one-year-old agricultural student at the University of Munich called Heinrich Himmler was trying to make sense of his own life. In the process, he absorbed many of the beliefs of the radical right. However, he was not moved by the crude, emotional anti-Semitism of men like Julius Streicher. Instead, Himmler preferred the pseudo-academic analysis contained within Houston Stewart Chamberlain’s work. He wrote of Foundations of the Nineteenth Century that it was ‘objective’ and not full of ‘hate-filled’ anti-Semitism.44 The young Himmler believed that he could deal with individual Jews in a professional fashion, while still understanding that racially the Jews were a threat. In January 1922, for instance, he met a Jewish lawyer and described him in his diary as ‘Extremely amiable and kind’, but nonetheless ‘He cannot hide his Jewishness’ because it was in his ‘blood’.45 Himmler also approved of treating in a brutal way those Jews who were perceived by fanatical nationalists to have harmed Germany. When he heard the news that the German Jewish Foreign Minister Walther Rathenau had been shot in June 1922, he wrote, ‘I’m glad … he was a villain.’46
‘We found ourselves in Birkenau,’ says Frico Breder, a male Slovak Jew who was sent to Auschwitz in 1942. ‘I didn’t know anything about that camp at that time. However, as soon as I saw it I thought I was in hell.’ One night, shortly after Frico’s arrival in Birkenau, his Kapo approached him and said he needed someone ‘to do loading’ – without mentioning what was to be ‘loaded’. He promised Frico that those who completed the task would receive some bread. Frico soon discovered that the task was ‘loading dead bodies’ on to a cart. As he began moving the corpses, he saw the body of a ‘very beautiful woman’. ‘She is still in my head,’ says Frico. ‘She must have come to the camp very recently – she must have committed suicide or something like that … It was a clear night and the moon was shining on her … It was very beautiful.’54
Differing from the usual practice of heterogeneous composition of blocks and work commandos, the SS camp administration stressed the rule that, as much as possible, Jewish inmates were to work and be housed separately from non-Jewish inmates. Furthermore they were to be assigned to as few camps as possible. Thus the November 1, 1944, Mittelbau roster listed Jewish inmates only for camps Dora, Ellrich, and Harzungen (except for two inmates in Klein-Bodung and one in the SS construction brigades).40 Even after the arrival of the transports from Czestochowa (most prisoners of these transports arrived in camps Rottleberode and Stampeda, where many were murdered by SS personnel and Kapos or died of the effects of forced labor in the underground galleries of Bauvorhaben B 4), Auschwitz, and Gross-Rosen, the SS changed its practice little and sent its Jewish prisoners almost exclusively to the large camps. Most Jews were assigned to construction sites, and a few were assigned to the production commandos of the Mittelwerk. There they had to work in isolated commandos and were housed in Dora separately from the other production workers.
Inscription on the memorial plaque for Louis Aletrino in Mauthausen concentration camp
Several hundred Gypsies (Zigeuner) arrived at Dora in 1944 from Auschwitz via Buchenwald. Of German origin, there were many in Block 130. Spitz was Schreiber there, and he liked them.19
The post brought scraps of information about the gas chambers, and about who had and hadn’t made it through the war. Grandma Szeskin had died of hunger. Nina’s uncle had been a prisoner in Siberia. Most relatives on her father’s side had been murdered in Treblinka. Nina was almost ashamed to read those letters, because she had not gone hungry for even a day.
The communist prisoners at Buchenwald, of whom there were still almost eight hundred in 1945, were entitled, because of the coherency of the bloc which they had constituted, to hope to play an important role in the new Germany liberated from Nazism.32 This is indeed what initially occurred for a certain number of them, who happened to have links with Saxony and Thuringia.
Given that Himmler had no problem deluding himself about the fate of the Jews, what about the mass of ordinary Germans? What did they know about the Final Solution and how many of them were prepared to help the Jews? That there was some German opposition to the Nazis’ treatment of the Jews is undeniable. Most famously the White Rose group in Munich, including brother and sister Hans and Sophie Scholl, distributed a series of leaflets in 1942 and 1943 protesting about many aspects of Hitler’s rule. But while the White Rose group condemned the Nazi treatment of the Jews, the wording of their protest leaflet is enlightening. They focused on the murder of ‘three hundred thousand Jews’ in Poland ‘in the most bestial manner imaginable’, which they saw as ‘a terrible crime against the dignity of mankind, a crime that cannot be compared with any other in the history of mankind’. However, they immediately felt the need to add these words: ‘Jews are human beings too – it makes no difference what your opinion is regarding the Jewish question – and these crimes are being committed against human beings. Perhaps someone will say, the Jews deserve this fate. Saying this is in itself a colossal effrontery.’51 That the White Rose protesters felt the need to argue against those who thought the Jews ‘deserve their fate’ is significant. They obviously believed that, because the victims were Jews, they could not count on all their fellow non-Jewish Germans to condemn the crime automatically.
IMAGES OF BUCHENWALD. The images of Buchenwald are varied and in large part contradictory, above all on account of the conditions in which the liberation of the camp came about in 1945. There is no question here of going back into the—altogether passionate—1976 controversy concerning the chronology of events of that afternoon of April 11, 1945. Amouroux—among others—dealt with the subject in 1993.1 What is important to bear in mind is that when the American troops from Patton’s army arrived at Buchenwald they found a camp intact, being administered by the prisoners—a small number of whom had recently armed themselves—with an international organization that had taken things into hand. These exceptional circumstances allowed for the best resolution—given the conditions of the period—of the problem posed by the existence of some twenty-one thousand men to be fed, treated, and then repatriated. There was no disorder, no epidemics, and the repatriation of the French could actually be described as “efficient.”2
We had already been separated for a week. Where could they be, lost in this enormous mass, anonymous, like all those swallowed by this gigantic prison? Had my daughter been able to stay with her mother, or had they already been separated? What had happened to my aged parents, whose last years I had tried to make more pleasant? What had become of my beloved younger sister, whom I had raised practically as my own child after our father had fallen ill? It had been such a pleasure to love and help them. I had no doubt about their fate. They were certainly en route to one of the forty-car trains that would bring them here to the Jewish ramp of the Auschwitz extermination camp. With one mechanical wave of his hand Dr. Mengele would direct my parents into the left-hand column. And my sister would also join that column, for even if she were ordered into the right-hand column, she would surely beg, on bended knee, for permission to go with our mother. So they would let her go, and she, with tears in her eyes, would shower them with thanks.
During my own investigation in Shanghai, I arrived at a still larger figure, nearly ten thousand. But I must make one reservation. I was able to verify how many visas Zwartendijk and Sugihara issued, more or less, and the average number of people to use each one. But I do not know how many families with visas actually went on the journey. Some gave up on the idea at the last minute; others, like Solly Ganor’s parents, put off their departure too long. Almost everyone who hesitated was sent to an extermination camp and died there, or else was murdered in Lithuania. Solly Ganor is an exception – he survived the war. But his brother disappeared without a trace, and his mother and sister died in Stutthof concentration camp.
25 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 235.
Between March and July 1943, the deportation of nearly 35,000 Dutch Jews to Sobibór brought considerable wealth to the camp. These Jews, direct from the Netherlands, carried food and jewels with them. It was unusual for large transports from western Europe to arrive at a Reinhard death camp. The decision to deport Dutch Jews to Sobibór was probably taken because thousands of Jews had just been sent to Auschwitz from Greece, and Sobibór had spare killing capacity. But whatever the precise motive for it, this decision was one of the reasons why the overall death toll of Jews from the Netherlands was so high. Unlike at Auschwitz, where a proportion of new arrivals were selected on the ramp to work as forced labour, at Sobibór more than 99 per cent of the people on each transport were dead within a few hours of arrival. Out of the 35,000 Dutch Jews who were sent to Sobibór, fewer than two dozen survived. So while it is understandable that historians focus on the domestic factors within the Netherlands that might have contributed to the large proportion of Dutch Jews who lost their lives in the Holocaust – such as the cooperative attitude of the Dutch civil service – it is important to remember that this German decision to send the Dutch Jews to Sobibór also had some, albeit limited, impact.33
Part of the next chapter will be devoted to the dramatic conditions that awaited the trains coming from Auschwitz and Gross Rosen, in January and February 1945, upon their arrival in Dora, Ellrich, and Nordhausen.
Günther Ruschin was taken with others who had been selected for forced labour to the camp at Monowitz, next to the IG Farben works. Several days later his father, who had also been selected for work, was injured in an accident. Günther was told that his father would be sent to ‘hospital’ for ‘an X ray’. But shortly afterwards a Polish Jew told him that his father would not receive medical treatment, but would be ‘gassed’ instead. Günther’s immediate reaction was that he wanted to be selected for Birkenau so as to be near his father since maybe by some miracle he still lived. ‘This is the feeling’, he says, ‘of a boy who was very close to his father.’ But the Polish Jew convinced Günther that his father was dead and that he should remain working at Monowitz. So Günther decided to stay where he was and vowed to try and survive. ‘We went to work in lines of five men in groups,’ he says. ‘I always tried to be in the middle, so as not to be hit by the SS, and that helped. And I tried always not to be seen by the troops. I am not a man who says I must do something, some sabotage or something, no. I wanted to stay alive, to try to help others.’
On 12 September 1976, the Holocaust Center sent its findings to Zwartendijk. The report arrived in Rotterdam on 18 September, four days after his death.
AN EVOLUTION OF A POLITICAL NATURE. However, such a change was in no way devoid of political significance, and the breakoff with Buchenwald may have revealed a certain evolution. It is undeniable that the internal functioning of that camp rested on a tacit agreement between the SS command and the “Red” prisoners—both Germans and those so defined—to the mutual advantage of the two parties. As will be seen later, the prisoners taking charge of the administration did raise some questions after the war. The fact remains nonetheless that the most fanatical of the SS did not view favorably such an important delegation of powers left to political opponents.
In late 1944 there was an S III work site at Ohrdruf on a military site in Thuringia building a command post for Hitler. That Kommando was dependent on Buchenwald.
The level of suffering on what became known as the ‘death marches’ was immense. One estimate – almost certainly on the low side – is that out of 113,000 concentration camp prisoners who were forced on to the winter roads in January and February 1945, more than one in three died.36 In Poland there were examples of locals trying to offer help to the desperate prisoners as they trudged by,37 but within Germany, while there may well have been individual displays of kindness, the general attitude was less forgiving – summed up by the comment of one German bystander at the sight of prisoners on a death march: ‘What crimes they must have committed to be treated so cruelly.’38
“Stopped at the Schreibstube, questioning-interrogation, then on to Block 13. I met the first Häftlingsarzt, a Dutch doctor who seemed very nice. I was introduced to the Standortsarzt, who ordered me: ‘autopsy tomorrow at nine o’clock.’ The next day, I performed my first ‘Sektion’ (dissection), after having taken a thrashing from a German green Kapo who had carried out autopsies before me and had the autopsy instrument case under his guard. The camp commander and the Standortarzt watched me at work and after an hour, seemed satisfied. One said ‘Stimmt’ and they disappeared. I never saw them again at the crematorium.
This news had worried De Decker, too. All the diplomats had been told to leave, except for Sugihara and Zwartendijk. Still, he felt certain the Russians wouldn’t find any evidence against the Dutch consul. Zwartendijk’s hints had made it clear to him that all of the consulate’s papers and documents had been destroyed. Of course, this didn’t mean all traces of the operation had been erased. After all, every visa issued was proof of what Zwartendijk had done.
Amicale d’Oranienburg-Sachsenhausen, Sachso (Paris: Plon, coll. “Terre humaine,” 1982).
From Ellrich, Rottleberode, and Schönebeck to Sachsenhausen, and the evacuation of Sachsenhausen toward Schwerin
Quite obviously, the prisoner personnel of the Revier—with the support of the SS doctor—did what it could with the scant means at its disposal to help the small number of sick who were authorized to receive medical care for a limited time. There were those who succumbed, and who justified the opinion—common in the camp—that the Revier was the antechamber to the crematorium. However, there were those whose state of health apparently improved, and who were allowed a rest, in the Schonung.
24 Christian Goeschel and Nikolaus Wachsmann (eds.), The Nazi Concentration Camps, 1933–1939: A Documentary History, University of Nebraska Press, 2012, pp. 204–5.
MEANWHILE, AT PEENEMÜNDE. As has already been noted in chapter 4, the Buchenwald prisoners who had been transferred to Karlshagen (i.e, Peenemünde) in June and July 1943 came back to Buchenwald in October and were quickly assigned to Dora. Contrary to what is generally assumed, prisoners still remained at Peenemünde. In fact, the Karlshagen camp was immediately reconstructed, and was to be evacuated only in March 1945 to Ellrich. It appears that the first prisoners concerned, especially the German Greens, Russians, and Poles, came from Sachsenhausen.
39 Previously unpublished testimony, but see also Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, pp. 64–5.
Tadeusz was found, arrested and taken to Mysłowice prison – a place where inmates were ‘beaten and forced to confess’. Here, he signed the confession the Germans put in front of him since ‘there was no point in denying anything.’ At Mysłowice assessments were made in order to decide where the prisoners should be sent next. The place Tadeusz most feared was Auschwitz, because he knew that a ‘police court’ with a terrifying reputation was held inside Block 11 in the main camp. In the spring of 1944, he learnt his fate. He, and fifty or so other prisoners, were loaded on to a truck and driven out of the prison, escorted by police on motorbikes. ‘After the convoy turned left,’ he says, ‘we knew we were going to Auschwitz. We were all sitting quietly, thinking about our fate and our families because we knew that this was the last day of our lives.’
Shortly after they arrived Max remembers: ‘I was sitting with my mother and they brought us water. Now in the ghetto we had a lot of typhoid fever, so we never drank unboiled water. So I turned to my mother and I said, “I presume it’s not boiled.” So she got into hysterical laughter, I mean, she has got on her hands an idiot of a kid, who thinks that now he’s going to worry about boiled water. The people around, who are sitting there, thought that she’d become hysterical because she heard about the crematorium.’49 Max’s mother was sent to the women’s quarantine camp at Birkenau. While he was ‘upset’ to see his mother leave, he didn’t ‘start screaming’. He realized that he had to contain his emotions or ‘I wouldn’t be living two minutes afterwards.’ Subsequently he shouted through the wire to his mother, ‘Why are you crying, why are you crying? We are going to be dead anyway, so what’s the point?’
As the Baubrigaden were in the end attached to Sachsenhausen, the convoy set off in the direction of Magdeburg via Heudeber, Jerxheim, Schöningen, and Eisleben. Since it was too late to cross the Elbe at Magdeburg or go directly to Stendal, the convoy went instead to Haldensleben where it took a secondary line (which is gone today) through Roxförde and Letzlingen. At Letzlingen the train was immobilized by an aerial attack at noon on April 11.
Joseph Woussen,14 born in 1893 and at the time a lieutenant colonel in the Belgian army, arrived at Dora in October 1943 with the number 30060. One of the leaders of the Secret Army, he was arrested in 1942 and spent time in a series of prisons before being sent to Buchenwald. He stayed in the tunnel until April 1944. While in the camp he tried to “visit his fellow Belgians to boost their morale as far as he was able.” One of them added: “His personality, age and experience, perhaps, too, the fact that he was the highest-ranking Belgian officer in the camp, account for the influence he exerted over the other Belgians who saw him as a moral leader in whom they could confide.” Since he could speak German he served as the “public scribe,” writing postcards to the prisoners’ families. He gathered and disseminated news on military events.
By this same underground route the official organ of the Third Reich, the Völkischer Beobachter was brought every day to the crematorium by a different railroad worker. A monthly subscription cost one 140 gram gold cylinder. Anyone who risked his neck thirty times a month bringing his newspaper to a KZ prisoner deserved the sum he received.
Christian Pineau (under the name of Jacques Grimaux) arrived at Buchenwald on December 16, 1943, and received the identity number 38418. Luckily he managed to avoid a transport and later learned that it was a transport to Dora. When he published an account in 1960 of his years in the French Resistance and deportation under the title La Simple Vérité, he gave one chapter the title “Kommando for Dora,” as if to exorcise his fear in retrospect.4
59 Jürgen Matthäus and Mark Roseman (eds.), Jewish Responses to Persecution, vol. 1: 1933–1938, AltaMira Press/US Holocaust Memorial Museum, 2010, Report to the Jewish Telegraph Agency in Paris on persecution in Austria in June 1938, document 10-7, pp. 283–4.
Early in the morning of 16 October, Settimia Spizzichino, a twenty-two-year-old Roman Jew, suspected that something was wrong: ‘That night was a slightly different night from the others. One could feel that there was something in the air. A kind of cottonwool silence. I can’t describe it. And towards four in the morning we started hearing footsteps, heavy footsteps. Soldiers’ footsteps, marching. So we went to the windows to see what was going on and we saw the Germans breaking into the houses and taking the Jews. We took fright because we saw them coming into our building.’7 Settimia was taken with her family to a prison close to the Vatican, where she describes conditions as ‘horrendous’, and from there to Auschwitz. She was one of 1,800 Jews deported from Rome during the German occupation. ‘I came back from Auschwitz on my own [at the end of the war],’ she says. ‘I lost my family there. My mother. Two sisters, my little niece and then one brother. Had the Pope spoken out a number of Jews would have fled. They would have reacted. Instead he kept quiet. He played into the Germans’ hands. The Pope was very near. We were right under his nose. But he didn’t lift a finger. He was an anti-Semitic Pope. He didn’t take a single risk.’
57 Tomasz Kranz, The Extermination of Jews at Majdanek Concentration Camp, Majdanek, 2010, p. 64.
44 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 108.
5 Adolf Hitler, Mein Kampf, Houghton Mifflin, 1971, p. 325; also see Jeffrey Herf, The Jewish Enemy: Nazi Propaganda during World War Two and the Holocaust, Belknap Press, 2006, p. 75.
The Succession of “Transports” from Buchenwald to Dora
Nevertheless, in Buchenwald itself, arms-industry-related factories were set up. That of the DAW—Deutsche Ausrüstungswerke—belonged to the SS and was located inside the barbed-wire fences. Himmler finally obtained Speer’s authorization to construct the Gustloff’s thirteen halls outside the camp; a large Kommando, however, was already set up in the Gustloff factories in Weimar. There was also the Mibau Werke factory, where gyroscopes were built.19 A more distant Kommando was set up in the Junkers factories in Schönebeck, near Magdeburg.
Certain old concentration camp prisoners handled the shock more easily. Such was the case of André Rogerie, or the surviving hostages of convoy “45,000” from Auschwitz. Was there, for certain individuals, a sort of adaptation to the vicissitudes of concentration camp life? It is a question that can be posed, though it remains ultimately unanswerable.
There were, of course, special factors that we had to consider when interviewing survivors of the Holocaust. One of the most crucial was always to remember that the survivors of camps like Auschwitz, Sobibór and Treblinka did not represent the normal experience of those who were sent there. The normal experience was to be murdered. So we cannot, of course, speak to anyone who suffered the fate of the majority.
Though around 23,000 Sinti and Roma were sent to Auschwitz, Nazi policy about the Gypsies remained confused. The Nazis, for instance, never put the same kind of pressure on their allies to send Sinti and Roma to the camps as they did Jews. Not that Sinti and Roma escaped persecution. While, for example, the considerable Sinti and Roma population in Romania was not subjected to systematic extermination, thousands were still deported to Transnistria. In Croatia, during the same period, the Ustaše targeted ‘Gypsies’, passing discriminatory legislation, imprisoning them in camps and eventually murdering around 26,000 Sinti and Roma.44 Undoubtedly, enormous numbers of Sinti and Roma died during the war – the precise figure is unknown, but it was certainly more than 200,000.
After the Russians arrived, Lafond stayed for eight days with a few comrades in the abandoned Oranienburg camp. On April 30 a Polish ambulance drove him to Sachsenhausen. He was saved. Starting on May 5 he noted the improvements in his condition along with various comments about those around him, such as this one on May 14: “Two beds away from me, there is a Pole who has gone mad and will not take off his bowler hat or let go of his umbrella, which he guards jealously day and night.”
But it was in France itself that the most lively dissent arose, from the pen of Paul Rassinier, a French deportee at Dora who had passed his quarantine at Buchenwald in January–March 1944. In 1949 he first published, at his own expense, an account entitled Passage de la ligne. Du vrai à l’humain (Crossing the Line: From the True to the Human) dealing with his deportation. In 1950 he published Le Mensonge d’Ulysse. Regard sur la littérature concentrationnaire (The Lie of Odysseus: Looking at Concentration Camp Writings) in which he criticized other authors of texts on the camps. In 1955 the two texts were collected under the common title Le Mensonge d’Ulysse in two parts: L’Expérience vécue (Lived Experience), corresponding to the earlier Passage de la ligne, and L’Expérience des autres (The Experience of Others), corresponding to the later Mensonge d’Ulysse of 1950.
12 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 217. Though note that around twenty Jewish refugees were handed over to the Nazis. The Danish Prime Minister apologized for this in 2005 on behalf of Denmark.
Hillel Levine wrote the first study of Sugihara to meet rigorous standards of historical scholarship: In Search of Sugihara: the elusive Japanese diplomat who risked his life to rescue 10,000 Jews from the Holocaust (New York, 1995).
The Struthof camp was not, however, reserved for prisoners from Alsace-Lorraine. It was not located in France, any more than Auschwitz was located in Poland or Mauthausen in Austria. According to the delimitation of the period, all these camps were in the Deutsches Reich. Struthof was set high up in the Vosges Mountains of Alsace. For the SS it was the Natzweiler camp, built by German and Polish prisoners in 1941. Kramer was commander of the camp for a long time, before going to Auschwitz and then Bergen-Belsen, where he was stationed in 1945 at the time of the evacuations. For a while Fritz Pröll was a nurse there before coming to Dora. Plaza was the camp’s SS doctor between the beginnings of Dora and Ohrdruf. It was a very harsh camp. As at all the large camps there were outside Kommandos. Some were close by, like Sainte-Mariedes-Mines (then called Markirch). Others were more remote, like Rebstock in the Rhineland, which was working on the vehicles to transport V2s, or those in the Neckar valley where the Kammler Sonderstab had underground tunnels dug, as we shall see in chapter 11.
At the same time the Sonderstab Kammler proceeded with setting up a factory in a natural cave at Heimkehle, to the east of Nordhausen, as part of the A 5 operation. At the Schönebeck factory south of Magdeburg there was a large Buchenwald Kommando with skilled workers who had been selected upon the convoys’ arrival. A large number of the Schönebeck personnel was transferred to the Heimkehle cave. Another Kommando of this kind was found in Halberstadt. The new factory, called Thyrawerke Rottleberode, built landing gear.
19 Michael Phayer, The Catholic Church and the Holocaust, 1930–65, Indiana University Press, 2000, pp. 92–3.
The first concentration camp in Bavaria opened on 22 March 1933 in a town just 10 miles from the centre of Munich. The name of this place would become infamous – Dachau. Himmler had personally inspected the site, on the outskirts of the town in a disused factory, and decided that this would be the location for the camp. The nature of the institution was clear from the outset. ‘Now we’ve got the power,’ said Johann-Erasmus von Malsen-Ponickau, an SS commander, to the new SS guards at Dachau. ‘If these swine had taken over, they’d have made sure our heads rolled in the dust. So we know no sentimentality. Any man in our ranks who can’t stand the sight of blood doesn’t belong here, he should get out.’46 They were words that demonstrated the hypocrisy of Göring’s claim that the role of the camps was to ‘rescue’ misguided Germans, or Himmler’s assertion that the SS sought to ensure the ‘safety’ of those they imprisoned.
The most important organization-related decision was the immediate transfer of the V2 production factory from the Peenemünde base to the underground complex at Kohnstein—that is, the Dora Tunnel. This represented the transfer of materiel, German staff, and the prisoners already sent from Buchenwald to Peenemünde/Karlshagen. The two men in charge of the operation were Sawatzki, given the task of planning the entire operation, and Rudolph, who was to set up the factory and get it running. Rudolph was one of the senior rocket specialists, while Sawatzki had recently arrived from another industrial sector. Both were Nazis.
Two other convoys can also be identified that crossed Saxony and Bohemia with prisoners from Buchenwald. One of them left Weimar on April 8, went through Chemnitz and then Karlsbad, and finally arrived in Bavaria via Eisenstein. Then it meandered through southern Bavaria until it was liberated on April 30 by the American forces in Landsham east of Munich.
Nonetheless, despite Hitler’s boast, there is no evidence that the majority of Germans supported the Nazis and their virulent anti-Semitism. Quite the contrary. As he spoke those words, Hitler knew that four months before, at the German general election in May 1928, the Nazis had polled just 2.6 per cent of the vote. It was a disastrous result for them. Yet within five years Hitler would be Chancellor of Germany, at the head of the largest political party in the country. What made this transformation possible was not Hitler’s bogus claim of widespread concern within Germany about ‘the Jewish question’ but a factor that was wholly out of his control – an economic catastrophe.
Dr. Mengele left. I returned to my room, completely elated, holding the pass in my hand. Once there I began to read it: “Number A 8450 is authorized to circulate freely within the confines of the Auschwitz KZ. Signed: Dr. Mengele, SS Hauptsturmführer.” Never to my knowledge had anything like this happened in the history of the camp. I did not know quite where to begin. The women were quartered in the C, B3 and FK4 Camps. As far as I knew, most of the Hungarian women were in C Camp. I decided to try there first.
41. Hungarian Jews arrive at Auschwitz Birkenau in 1944. The majority of the people in this photograph – including all the small children – would be dead within a matter of hours.
24 Franciszek Piper, Auschwitz: How Many Perished?, Frap Books, 1996, p. 53, writes of 438,000 Hungarian Jews taken to Auschwitz (from within Hungarian wartime borders), but Mirek Obstarczyk of Auschwitz museum informs me that the figure is now revised to 430,000.
Similarly, the drawings by the prisoners, whether done secretly in the camps or upon their return, are necessarily disparate. They provide a powerful idea of the concentration camp world in a general sense but are rarely characteristic of any one camp in particular. The author found himself in this very predicament with regard to Dora as he was writing his book. It was the fortuitous discovery in 1998 of a remarkable series of color photographs taken in 1944 in the Dora Tunnel which made it possible to envisage a public exhibition in 1999 on the theme of “Images of Dora” and to publish the corresponding catalog. The twenty-eight illustrations that make up the illustrations section in the English edition of A History of the Dora Camp are all taken (with one exception) from this exhibition.
United States Holocaust Memorial Museum collection: Jan Zwartendijk, National Archives and Records Administration, National Archives and Records Administration, Lucille Szepsenwol Camhi, Hiroki Sugihara, Hiroki Sugihara, Hiroki Sugihara, Akira Kitade, Jan Zwartendijk, Eric Goldstaub, Ralph Harpuder, Harry Fiedler, Ralph Harpuder, Jan Zwartendijk
THE REVIER STAFF. During the year 1944 the SS doctor—or Lagerarzt—was Dr. Karl Kahr, a distinguished, distant man who had been seriously wounded on the Eastern Front. He was competent and supported improvements in his ward. On the prisoners’ side, authority in the Revier was given to two German Reds, both communists, Fritz Pröli and Schneider. They have both been described as Kapos, according to the sources, but it would seem that Pröli was actually the Schreiber. Whatever may have been the case, it appears that Pröli was sent specially to Buchenwald in April 1944 to take over the Revier, with the consent of the commanders of Buchenwald and Dora. Despite his youth, Pröli had ten years of camp life behind him and was an important figure in the communist hierarchy along with Kuntz, Gamisch, and Beham. When Lobstein46 arrived on September 28 he carried a message for Pröli from the Kapo of the Buchenwald Revier. Pröli was highly intelligent and proved to be a remarkable organizer, according to Rassinier’s account,47 which can hardly be suspected of indulgence toward communists. Furthermore, everyone held him in esteem.
Jerzy Bielecki also recalls the brutality of the Kapos – German criminals sent to Auschwitz from Sachsenhausen – who supervised their work: ‘I got used to seeing death, beatings and maltreatment,’ he says. After ‘three or four months I got used to that sight’. When he was part of a construction ‘commando’ he witnessed a Kapo, who was angry at the work of one of the prisoners, take a spade and ‘cut his neck so that blood spouted and the spade was immersed to halfway in his neck. I’ll never forget this … I see it in my dreams.’65
In the hierarchy of concentration camps and Kommandos (work details), the Dora camp was the last to be classed as an “autonomous” camp, a “main” camp. Far more recent than the other camps in this category, such as Dachau, Sachsenhausen, and Buchenwald, its importance stems from its association with secret weapons production. Ironically, though, this very association has proved detrimental to its notoriety.
103 Longerich, Holocaust, p. 282.
39 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, p. 30.
The first train left Austria for Dachau concentration camp on 1 April 1938. By the end of the year nearly 8,000 people had been sent there from Austria.56 To begin with most were the Nazis’ political opponents, many of Jewish descent. But in May the Nazis began targeting Jews they called ‘asocial’, ‘criminal’ or simply ‘disagreeable’.57 The terror reached such an extreme that a Jewish Austrian was at risk of arrest for simply eating in a restaurant or sitting in a public park at the same time as the authorities launched a search for Jews. Overall, during 1938, more than 75 per cent of the prisoners sent to Dachau by the Nazis were Jewish. On the trains to Dachau, the Austrians were often beaten and otherwise abused. One estimate – made by the SS themselves – was that about 70 per cent of those on one transport they investigated had been attacked.58
Cardon-Hamet (Claudine), Mille Otages pour Auschwitz (Paris: Graphein, 1997).
59 Browning, Genocide, p. 38.
As seen above, the Buchenwald site was not available for a commemoration before 1950. The same went for the Dora site, for different reasons.
So it was that the turn of the model ghetto at Theresienstadt arrived. When they reached Auschwitz, the still healthy men of this ghetto had the following convocation in their possession:
One obvious consequence of Hitler’s intransigence was that the suffering of the Jews continued. In Slovakia, for instance, German security forces deported more than 12,000 Jews between September and December 1944, after the Germans suppressed an uprising by the Slovak resistance. In Hungary, Hitler’s determination to stop Admiral Horthy from taking the country out of the war led to another crisis for the Hungarian Jews. After ending the deportations to Auschwitz in early July, Horthy had once again been plotting to make peace with the Allies. In early October, a Hungarian delegation even signed a deal with the Soviets in Moscow. On 15 October, the Germans responded. Otto Skorzeny, the SS officer who had led the team that rescued Mussolini from prison the year before, captured Horthy’s son Miklós in Budapest, rolled him up in a carpet and took him to Mauthausen camp in Austria. The Germans now blackmailed Horthy into transferring power to Ferenc Szálasi, leader of the Hungarian fascist party, the Arrow Cross. Horthy, wanting to save his son, collaborated with the Germans once again, and then spent the rest of the war as Hitler’s ‘guest’ in a castle in Bavaria.
But these activists who came out of Buchenwald were considered with suspicion by the German communists who returned from Moscow. In the autumn of 1946, in the course of a secret internal procedure, a commission of the SED’s central committee examined the behavior of those who had exerted functions in the camp and questioned the role of Ernst Busse, as Kapo of the Revier, where the SS doctors had carried out mortal injections in certain blocks.33 In the November 7 report the clandestine leadership finally obtained a general acquittal, but certain leaders, including Busse, were later reduced to subaltern functions. Nevertheless, as will be seen later, the issue, in which the Soviets did not get involved, was not closed. It was only the first episode.
Just days after the march out of Auschwitz, at Stutthof concentration camp in West Prussia, thousands of other prisoners were also forced out into the snow. Around 11,000 inmates, mostly Jews, were marched out of Stutthof and nearby satellite camps. Some headed towards Königsberg in East Prussia while others headed due west.32 On the journey the accompanying guards shot around 2,000 of the prisoners. ‘On both sides of the road,’ recalled Schoschana Rabinovici, one of those forced to march through the freezing cold, ‘we saw corpses of the prisoners from the columns marching in front of us. You could tell that some of the dead had collapsed and died of hunger, others had been shot, and the blood flowing from their wounds turned the snow red.’33 On 31 January several thousand prisoners were machine-gunned on the seashore at Palmnicken on the Sambian peninsula in the far east of Prussia, after an attempt to trap them in an amber mine and blow them up had been thwarted.34 Only 200 are thought to have survived the massacre.
Annette Wieviorka, in an appendix to Déportation et Génocide in which she discusses her sources,8 analyzes “firsthand accounts and books published prior to 1948” concerning deportation. The breakdown of the camps is not easy because prisoners were moved back and forth among them. The result is roughly as follows: seventeen texts on the Auschwitz complex and twenty on Ravensbrück and its Kommandos, twelve texts on Buchenwald alone, nine on various Buchenwald Kommandos, and seventeen on Dora as well as thirty-three on all the other camps put together, including twelve on Mauthausen, eight on Neuengamme, and seven on Dachau.
Hygiene conditions were appalling, typhus appeared, and by March, 800 to 1,000 prisoners were dying every day. There were corpses everywhere, as the crematorium ovens could not burn them all. By mid-March bonfires were lit, but the experiment was stopped partly because of complaints from the residents of Bergen who found the smoke unpleasant and partly because their glowing was visible from the air at night. Mass graves had to be dug.
Certain evacuations have been studied in depth by the various associations established by prisoners from the Kommandos concerned. This is the case for the “death marches” of the Langenstein and Neu Strassfurt Kommandos, dependent on Buchenwald, whose itinerary is known on a day-to-day basis. Only the principal stages are indicated. The crucial importance of the crossing of the Saale over the Könnern Bridge is noteworthy. The evacuation columns from Aschersleben and Wansleben crossed the river at that same point. The same map shows the itinerary of the evacuation of the Artern Kommando, dependent on Mittelbau.
crematorium description
In Dachau and Sachsenhausen many of the prisoners selected to be tortured for medical experimentation were non-Jews, but that wasn’t so surprising given that by the start of 1943 there were fewer than 400 Jews in the concentration camps in the Reich that had been built before the war.13 Even in Auschwitz, as we have seen, Dr Mengele could choose Sinti and Roma to die just as easily as he could choose Jews. For someone like Mengele, Nazi ideology justified a raft of murderous schemes: from the extermination of the Jews to deadly medical experiments. It was all part of a world in which medical professionals were the arbiters of life and death within the racial state.
As the Hungarian Jews discovered, the Nazis were selecting Jews to work not just in the factories around Auschwitz, but also within the territory of the pre-war Reich. Yet for years a basic tenet of Nazi ideology had been that the Jews should be expelled from these lands. So once again the Nazis demonstrated that there was no absolute ideological clarity in the way they implemented their Final Solution, given that this change in policy was purely pragmatic and was designed to address a labour shortage. It also meant, of course, that unlike the Jews who worked in the network of factories and mines in the immediate area of Auschwitz, the Jews working in the Reich were out of the reach of the gas chambers of Birkenau. Many of them would still die of starvation, disease and beatings, but they did so out of the orbit of Auschwitz.
Soon after arriving, Sugihara sent his list of refugees to the foreign ministry in Tokyo – by diplomatic bag, to be sure, but even so it was a risky and amateurish move; the list could have fallen into Nazi hands. Heydrich was not only ‘the butcher of Prague’ who had practically wiped out the Czech Resistance, but also the brains behind the physical substance used for the mass murder of the Jews: the poisonous gas Zyklon B. He chaired the Wannsee Conference, held on 20 January 1942, where he presented the Endlösung der Judenfrage, the ‘final solution to the Jewish question’. For Heydrich, who was assassinated with a bomb in Prague in June 1942, the removal of the Jews from public life and their mass deportation was not enough; his goal was systematic genocide. If Heydrich had seen the list, he would no doubt have demanded that Germany’s ally Japan return all the Jewish refugees to Europe.
King knew Germany well – he had been a student in Berlin at the turn of the century. When he met Hitler on 29 June 1937, he told him that he had personally witnessed ‘the constructive work of his regime’. Furthermore, he ‘hoped that that work might continue. That nothing would be permitted to destroy that work. That it was bound to be followed in other countries to the great advantage of mankind.’ King formed the opinion that Hitler ‘is really one who truly loves his fellow men, and his country, and would make any sacrifice for their good. That he feels himself to be a deliverer of his people from tyranny.’ In particular, King was ‘impressed’ by Hitler’s eyes: ‘There was a liquid quality about them which indicate keen perception and profound sympathy.’53 What King did not raise in his meeting with Hitler, according to his diary, was the persecution of the Jews. Nor did he mention the concentration camps, nor the suppression of human rights, nor the elimination of democracy.
The indicator of this process was the appearance of structural dissolution, which forms a recurrent theme through the history of Mittelbau-Dora. The Mittelbau camps had been the result of steady improvisation and ideological concessions by the SS, mandated by the war economy, that spelled a step-by-step retreat from its erstwhile dogmas. In 1943 the creation of a minicamp of fifty inmates in a town was still thought impossible. There was the difficult problem of guarding such a facility and the concern over unfavorable reactions by the population in the face of all-too-clear evidence of Nazi crimes. The protocols of the “Jägerstab” (responsible for fighter-plane construction and in charge of advancing the construction projects of Mittelbau) show that in the spring of 1944 the SS opposed industry demands to “allocate” groups of five hundred to a thousand inmates to industrial facilities. At the same time the SS created ever-smaller new Mittelbau satellite camps, and these moved ever closer to towns. Lack of fuel and frequent air attacks made it difficult to transport labor from the large camps to workplaces dozens of kilometers away. Hence improvisation led to the creation of provisional minicamps each of which, at times, were occupied by only a dozen inmates. But as André Sellier graphically describes, inmates were often forced to cover the distance between camps and workplaces in murderous marches.
PRISONERS WEARING ARMBANDS. It would be interesting to know how Buchenwald’s Arbeitsstatistik—under the control of the Reds—established the first lists of “transports” of German prisoners (Greens or Reds) to Dora. We are reduced to conjecture. Concerning the Greens, there is every reason to think that it was a very good occasion to get rid of both unsavory individuals and potential competitors for the good positions at Buchenwald. It was of course a very nasty trick to play on the French and Soviet deportees who had been sent to Dora to have them accompanied by German (or even Polish) criminals, who were destined to keep an eye on them as Kapos and Vorarbeiter.
In parallel with telling Nazi leaders the true extent of their collective guilt, Himmler wanted to wind up the extermination operation of the Reinhard camps. The revolts at Treblinka and Sobibór, together with the Jewish resistance in a number of ghettos – not only in Warsaw in April, but more recently in Białystok in August – had reinforced his desire to centralize much of the killing process on the more secure facility at Auschwitz.56 He was also influenced by bureaucratic considerations. He wanted to eliminate the possibility that the Jews in the area could be used as forced labour by any German agency other than the SS.57 As a result, in October 1943, he told Friedrich-Wilhelm Krüger, the SS and police chief in the General Government, to liquidate the large camps still operating in the Lublin district.58
There is strictly no comparison between Buchenwald and Dora as far as the symbolism inspired by the commemoration is concerned. Buchenwald is near Weimar, making it possible to recall the memory of Schiller and Goethe. The latter had taken walks on the Ettersberg, and the burned-out remains (following the bombing of August 1944) of “Goethe’s oak tree” can be seen in the camp. But no reference was made to the Weimar Republic.
But increasing the capacity to kill via the addition of more gas vans did not solve a more fundamental problem the Nazis faced if they wished to use this method of killing to murder the ‘unproductive’ Jews of Łódź. Lange’s original van had travelled around Poland, bringing the gas chamber to where the victims lived, but that was clearly impracticable if the intention now was to kill Jews from the Łódź ghetto. Problems of body disposal and secrecy would arise if the vans were to drive up to the ghetto every day and take Jews away. Hence the selection of Chełmno as a base for the gas vans. The village was in the countryside, far away from any major city and yet with good transport connections to the rest of Poland, and just 40 miles north-west of Łódź. A run-down mansion across from the village church could be converted as a base for the gas-van operation, and the bodies of the murdered Jews could be buried in a nearby forest. The central benefit of the gas vans in the killing process – the mobility of the murder machine – was thus negated. But in exchange the Nazis believed they had gained another, more important advantage – secrecy.
As Hitler offered this New Year message to German soldiers, their ‘Bolshevik’ enemies were not far from Auschwitz, where around 67,000 inmates still remained. In a new offensive, beginning on 12 January, Soviet soldiers from the First and Fourth Ukrainian Fronts closed in on Kraków, little more than 30 miles east of the camp. At Auschwitz, the Germans now followed orders not to allow their prisoners to fall into enemy hands. The SS marched most of the remaining Auschwitz prisoners – around 58,000 of them – out into the icy wind and snow of the Polish winter. The prisoners left behind, just under 9,000, were judged too sick to embark on the march. They were supposed to be shot by SS Sturmbannführer (Major) Franz Xaver Kraus and his men before the Red Army liberated Auschwitz. SS units did go on to murder about 300 prisoners at Birkenau, together with several hundred more in four sub-camps, but most of the sick at Auschwitz survived. Once again, this wasn’t because the SS had suddenly become ashamed of their murderous work, but because the discipline of the SS had started to crack as the Red Army approached. Rather than spend time killing the inmates, the SS preferred to increase their chances of saving themselves by escaping the area. Prisoners recalled that during the ‘evacuation’ there was ‘chaos’ and ‘panic’ among ‘the drunken SS’.24
1 The figure 4,500 is the total suggested by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (www.ushmm.org) – 3,500 citizens of the country and 1,000 refugees. Yad Vashem suggest a lower total of 3,500 (www.yadvashem.org). Yehuda Bauer, American Jewry and the Holocaust: The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee 1939–1945, Wayne State University Press, 1981, p. 53, suggests 3,500 in 1939 and 2,000 in 1940.
22 Testimony from Touched by Auschwitz, written and produced by Laurence Rees, transmitted on BBC2, 20 January 2015.
THE “TRANSPORTS.” At the beginning of 1944 a significant number of prisoners—in the Revier, Schonung, tunnel, and in the camp—were unable to work. Many of the prisoners had already died; but others still, sometimes referred to as Muselmänner, were perhaps going to take awhile to die. Space was lacking, sleeping quarters in the tunnels were full, and the camp was still very rudimentary. And new prisoners were expected to arrive from Buchenwald at the moment when the factory in the tunnel would finally be able to produce the V2s. Those of no use in Dora had to be gotten rid of.
The Soviet commissars were also sent to other concentration camps to be murdered, and individual SS units often devised their own method of killing. For instance, at Sachsenhausen, outside Berlin, the SS performed an elaborate charade in order to deceive the commissars about their fate. The commissars were taken into a specially converted barracks and told to undress in preparation for a medical examination. Once they were naked they were led one at a time into a room that purported to be a doctor’s office. An SS man, dressed in a white coat, looked them over. What the commissars did not know was that the SS man was interested only in whether or not they had any gold teeth or fillings that could be removed after their death. Next they were taken into a third room where they were told that they were to be measured. They stood up against a measuring stick and then, through a small flap connecting this room to an adjacent one, they were shot in the back of the neck. Kapos took the body away and hastily cleaned the execution chamber ready for the next victim. Loud music was played in the waiting room to drown out the sound of the gunfire.
44 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 272.
Jews from surrounding camps were also murdered in Majdanek. They were ordered in small groups to lie down in ditches and then shot. Members of the next group to be killed were told to lie on top of the corpses of those who had just died and then the guns were turned on them. Not everyone died at once and it was to drown out their screams – and the screams of the Jews who were about to die – that two ‘radio cars’ blared out popular music.60 On 3 November around 18,000 people were killed at Majdanek – the largest number ever killed in a death camp on a single day. It is another reminder that gas chambers were not needed in order to murder en masse.
Some of the workforce was initially moved around between the Mittelwerk complex and the new work sites, under the authority of the Buchenwald command. In the autumn of 1944, however, the SS put up Dora as an autonomous camp, bringing most of the Mittelraum sites under its authority. This was the situation prevailing in particular in the first quarter of 1945, which will be described in part 5.
Until the August 18, 1943, bombing, life for Buchenwald prisoners sent to Peenemünde had been tolerable, as mentioned earlier. The bombing brought on two major changes. The first was that the German Greens took power that was unleashed on the others: one of their number, known as Mischka, replaced the Red LÄ, who was killed. The second was the overcrowding in the shelters, the dormitories having been destroyed. Michel Fliecx devoted several pages of his memoirs to narrating the more or less useless recuperation activities in which he had to engage in the general disorder that followed the bombing: loosening and taking off bolts, scraping dirt off bricks, and so on.19 Ultimately, all the prisoners were transferred to Buchenwald, then to the Dora Tunnel, where the material saved from the production factory had been shipped along with a number of the German civilians.
Packages arrived intact at Buchenwald. At Dora they were more or less looted even before they reached the block. It was therefore generally a good idea to be generous with the Blockältester, if what was left in the package was worth anything. The most extraordinary experience in this regard is recounted by Rassinier, who arrived at Dora in March 1944.
Only a fraction of all those sent to the death camps of Sobibór, Bełżec and Treblinka survived the war – perhaps not more than 150 people. And each of these individuals owed their survival to a large extent to good fortune. Samuel Willenberg, for instance, says, ‘It could have turned out differently in a thousand different ways. It did not matter what I said or did – I could have been burnt just as well. I would have ended up in the ash. It was all a question of luck … and maybe a bit of hot-headedness.’35 Luck was part of the reason why he survived, but it was not the whole reason. Both Samuel Willenberg and Kalman Taigman also possessed particular attributes that helped them endure their experience at Treblinka. Both were young at the time – in their late teens when they arrived at the camp – and both were strong and determined. Both were also men – far fewer women were selected for Sonderkommando work. Taigman coped in part, as we have seen, by turning himself into an ‘automaton’, while Willenberg had an extraordinary ability to look on the positive side – even in a death camp. After the war, he remarked that ‘others suffered more. It wasn’t like I was actually one of those forced to work in the gas chambers. They worked in terrible conditions. They had to drag the corpses out of the gas chambers as fast as they could.’36 So, surprising as it may seem, he drew some comfort from the fact that other Jewish workers at Treblinka were suffering even more than he was. Both he and Taigman were eventually to escape from the camp during the revolt in August 1943.
In 2002, the director of the Russian Research and Educational Holocaust Center in Moscow, the historian Ilya Altman, decided to go through all the archives one more time with a fine-toothed comb, in search of documents about the Jewish refugees. In the autumn of 2017, he published a brief report. The NKVD and police archives allowed Professor Altman to settle two questions once and for all.
Carl Clauberg had previously held the post of professor of gynaecology at the University of Königsberg, and was, like Mengele, a committed National Socialist. Himmler had taken an interest in his work and had personally approved his use of Auschwitz as a human research laboratory. As we have seen earlier in this history, sterilization was a subject of considerable interest for the Reichsführer SS. In pursuit of his experiments, Clauberg injected various substances into women in order to prevent fertilization. ‘Those women were in horrible pain, and had high temperature,’ says Silvia Veselá, a Slovak Jew who assisted Clauberg. ‘I measured their temperature, did X-rays, and so on.’6
Hessel was of German origin and like Semprun spoke excellent German, which was a significant advantage under certain circumstances at the time. On August 8 he joined a group of thirty-seven Resistance fighters arrested in France, comprised above all of French, several Belgians, three Englishmen, an American, and a Canadian who were transferred from Paris to Buchenwald,7 were they arrived on August 12 and were grouped in Block 17. The newcomers had contacts with the Buchenwald prisoners. Hessel met Pineau, whom he had known in London; Henri Frager met Semprun, who had been a member of his network. They were visited by Alfred (also Serge) Balachowsky, who worked in Block 50, where a vaccination against typhus was being prepared.
Henryk Mandelbaum, a Polish Jew, worked as one of the Sonderkommandos in the new Auschwitz crematoria/gas chambers in 1944. ‘You can’t really think about it,’ he says. ‘I thought I was in hell. I remember that sometimes when, if I did something wrong at home, my parents would tell me don’t do it because you’ll go to hell. But when I saw many human corpses, people who were murdered through gassing and they were being burnt … It was beyond anything I could imagine and I didn’t really know what to do. If I refuse [to work there] then I’ll be gone right? I knew they would kill me. I was young. I lost my family. They were gassed – my father, my mother and my sister and brother. So I was aware of it and I wanted to live and I fought. I struggled to live all the time.’
His indignation only grew when, defying the thrombosis in his leg and his poor health, he travelled to Japan and saw the Chiune Sugihara Memorial Hall in Yaotsu: a museum set in a stunning garden high in the hills just a few kilometres from Sugihara’s birthplace. In a traditional Japanese building made in large part from cypress wood, which is known for its unbending nature, the diplomat’s life and courage are presented as a model for future generations. While the museum does place Sugihara’s story in the much larger context of racism and the Holocaust, it is dedicated to one man, and he is represented in every room.
The third concerns the communist officials at Dora, Albert Kuntz in particular. The latter had been one of the first clandestine leaders at Buchenwald, until his imprisonment in the bunker and his being sent to an outside Kommando at Kassel. He was later one of the first to arrive at Dora, where he played, as already noted, an important role. If he had not been eliminated by the Gestapo in early 1945, would he too not have had to account for his actions in the atmosphere of suspicion that prevailed in the early 1950s?
The other convoy, which left on April 10, first went through Chemnitz, then Komotau, but did not reach Pilsen. It wandered endlessly in Sudeten between Saaz (Zatec) and Aussig in the same zone as Brigitte Friang’s column. It was not until May 7 that the survivors were able to get off in Theresienstadt. It is possible that this Buchenwald convoy is the same one mentioned by Hofstein in his account of the last leg of his march.
1. Dora (Concentration camp)—History. I. Title.
First of all, the SS administrative center, the WVHA under the command of Pohl, which was mentioned in chapter 1, was located in Oranienburg within an enormous complex of varied buildings. All decisions regarding the concentration camps, even those concerning the smallest details, were made there. Kammler was at home there. The complex also contained the barracks of the Brandenburg SS detachment, a major arsenal, motor fuel storage depots, and repair workshops for military vehicles and equipment hidden in the pine forest.
111 Patrick Montague, Chełmno and the Holocaust, I. B. Tauris, 2012, p. 34.
2. Known as the Association française Buchenwald-Dora et Kommandos, 66, rue des Martyrs, 75009 Paris.
This was not an isolated phenomenon. More or less everywhere over the second half of 1944 the SS were preoccupied with the clandestine organizations that potentially existed in the camps. At Auschwitz, as has been shown, they transferred German, Polish, and French prisoners to various other camps. At Buchenwald the arrests of German communists followed a (clandestine) funeral service in honor of Thälmann.2 On September 11, twenty-seven prisoners from Sachsenhausen (twenty-four Germans and three French) were shot for communist activities.3
A second convoy of 900 arrived in Buchenwald on September 4. This group was numbered in the “20,000” series. A large number of them got to Dora on September 28 and 29. The convoy of a thousand who arrived on September 18 made up the “21,000” series. Beginning on October 13, many of them arrived in Dora.
Jan turned to Ernest Heppner in Indianapolis for help. Heppner had been born in Breslau, one of three children of a master matzo baker. After the destruction of the city’s synagogue in 1938, his parents decided it was time to flee. But they could only get their hands on two exit visas. They decided to send seventeen-year-old Ernest and his mother out ahead on the Potsdam from Genoa to Shanghai. His father, sister, and eldest brother intended to follow as soon as they could. But they couldn’t. His brother escaped to England, but his father and sister were murdered in Auschwitz. In Shanghai, Ernest married Illo Koratkowski. She and her father came from Berlin, and had taken the Trans-Siberian Express using visas issued in Kaunas. Ernest and Illo remained in Shanghai until 1947. The first time Jan Zwartendijk junior met the couple, they had a wealth of stories to tell. By then, Ernest was hard at work on his history of the Jewish refugees in Shanghai, published in 1994 under the title of Shanghai Refuge.
19. Léon Delarbre’s drawing shows the corpse of a prisoner in front of the entrance to a block before being carried to the crematorium. He had “died during the night.”
After the events of 1938–39, the Czechs were politically extremely hostile to the Germans, a fact that they later demonstrated by expelling the German-speaking population from the Czech Republic in 1945–46. Yet they were closely linked from a cultural standpoint, as Bohemia and Moravia had belonged for centuries to the Holy Roman Empire and then to the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Most Czechs at Dora spoke German and were well educated, which ensured them secretarial positions both in the camp and in the factory and a role at the Revier. It is hard to estimate the pace of their arrival at Buchenwald, and then at Dora, as none of the convoys—this is inside the Reich, remember—were readily identifiable. We know from the testimony of Benès3 and Litomisky4 cited previously that Czech prisoners arrived at Dora in the very first weeks, after a difficult stay at Auschwitz. Another large group was present when the camp was built. Some could also be found at Ellrich.
No doctor was compelled to participate in this project. Those who objected could excuse themselves – for instance, by saying they were too ‘weak’ for the task – but the majority of those who were asked went along with the scheme with various degrees of enthusiasm. Some made the argument that by killing the most severely disabled they released more funding for other patients. Others subscribed to the official belief that the role of the doctor in the Nazi state was to look after the wellbeing as much of society as of the individual patient – especially at a time when the country was at war. Whatever excuse the doctors gave themselves, they knew that without their participation this murderous scheme could not function. Medical professionals were central to the whole process – from initially selecting the patients to die, to reassuring the patients as they prepared to enter the gas chamber, to turning on the gas valve, to certifying that the patients were dead, and to inventing fake causes of death to write on the official documentation that was sent to the relatives of the deceased.
The second was the existence of a new concentration camp at Peenemünde itself,50 with prisoners taken mainly from Sachsenhausen. This camp will be discussed at the end of chapter 10.
The Greens, or Blacks, held the principal positions in the camp administration. They were all the more fearsome that they had already been banished first from Buchenwald and then from Dora. They were the SS’s zealous assistants. It was observed that they were often accompanied by an entourage of young Gypsies, who could also be extremely fearsome. Richard Walenta, Blockältester since May 1944, became Lagerältester in the course of the summer. He was then transferred to Dora. He was replaced by someone by the name of Arthur Schimmeck. Courtaud recalls three successive LÄ, all Greens, all detestable, but does not know their names.
77 Ruth Levitt (ed.), Pogrom: November 1938. Testimonies from ‘Kristallnacht’, Souvenir Press/The Wiener Library for the Study of the Holocaust and Genocide, 2015, p. 33, report B12.
40 Testimony from Touched by Auschwitz, written and produced by Laurence Rees, transmitted on BBC2, 20 January 2015.
Himmler’s order to murder the remaining Jews at Majdanek in the suburbs of Lublin was carried out in November 1943 in a series of massacres known as the Harvest Festival killings. Henryk Nieścior, a Polish political prisoner in Majdanek at the time, witnessed the preparations for the crime. ‘Near the crematorium in Field V [different areas within Majdanek were known as “fields”] in late October 1943 the Germans assigned Jews to dig ditches, which were dug in zigzag form.’59 He remembered that the Germans tried to reassure the Jews that the ditches were nothing sinister – merely defence works, necessary because the front line was getting ever closer. On 3 November, the Germans ordered all the Jews in the camp to ‘step forward’ and they were taken up towards the area where the ditches had been dug. Shortly afterwards the SS started shooting the Jews with machine guns while music played through loudspeakers.
STÉPHANE HESSEL. “There are intense periods, atrocious ones; unforgettable ones. The breaking through of the Red Army forced the Germans to repatriate the prisoners from the eastern camps. Those from Gross Rosen had been evacuated to Dora in February. The living as well as the dead. Our crematorium was saturated, so pyres had to be built on which to stack the corpses. But, they had to be undressed first. A Kapo promised two slices of sausage to those who volunteered for this duty, without telling what it was. Two slices couldn’t be refused. I accepted with another young guy. We spent the day yanking off clothes covered in blood and excrement, feeling flesh gone cold. Pure and absolute horror.”18
Himmler, working to the wishes of his Führer, had finally devised a physical institution that appeared to solve the question that had dogged Nazi policy on the Jews since the beginning of the extermination process – how does one reconcile the usefulness of the Jews as workers with the ideological desire to eliminate them? Heydrich at the Wannsee conference in January 1942 had talked about working the Jews to death by making them build roads in the east, but the practical details of how this could be put into effect had never been thought through. Instead there had been a series of disputes between those who wanted to preserve the Jews to exploit their labour and those who wanted to kill them. Not only did Auschwitz bridge those two apparently irreconcilable objectives – as long as there remained a steady supply of replacement workers – but it did so within a secure environment. There was little risk of revolt at Auschwitz – the secure area around Auschwitz, known as the ‘zone of interest’, extended far beyond the wires of Birkenau and the main camp, and within Birkenau the various sections of the camp were fenced off from each other. A mass escape along the lines of the uprisings at Treblinka or Sobibór was all but inconceivable. Auschwitz and its network of sub-camps serving various industrial concerns was a self-contained universe. Once inmates entered it, they could live, work and die there – at every stage under the controlling eyes of the SS. It is this – the fact that Auschwitz by this point had become the practical manifestation of the Nazis’ ideological imperative – that helps make Auschwitz the most potent symbol of the Holocaust.
It was in this way that the camp at Buchenwald was to become something of a model camp, civilized by the victory of the Reds over the Greens; of the political prisoners, and above all communists over common-law criminals. It is worth pointing out that Kogon, of Austrian origin, was in no way a communist himself and later went back to a university career in West Germany.
On the other hand, Himmler decided on November 26, 1944, to eliminate all of the death camp installations, as had already been done at Sobibor, Treblinka, and Belzec. The gas chambers were destroyed and the pits, where the corpses of Hungarian Jews were burned, camouflaged.
On its way out the gold was carried in a Sonderkommando man’s pocket as far as the crematorium gate. There it changed hands. The man carrying the gold approached the SS guard on duty and exchanged a few words with him. The latter turned and sauntered away from the gate. On the section of railway track that passed in front of the “Krema” a team of from 20 to 25 Poles was working. At a sign from the Sonderkommando man, their work boss arrived with a folded sack and took the gold, which was wrapped in paper. So the sack containing the desired articles was safely inside the crematorium.
While the gas vans, from the Nazi perspective, had many advantages as a method of murder, chiefly that they could be deployed swiftly, they also had many weaknesses – most obviously that they could not murder in large numbers. That had been the case in the spring of 1942 when the gas vans had been unable to compete with the fixed gas chambers at places like Bełżec and Sobibór, and it remained the case now when compared with the potential murder capacity of Auschwitz Birkenau. The SS realized that it would take a considerable time for Chełmno to kill all the remaining Łódź Jews, and so the plan was changed. Deportations to Chełmno stopped on 15 July, and when they began again in August the destination for the Łódź Jews was not Chełmno but Auschwitz Birkenau.46
In the summer of 1941, the war against the Soviet Union also had an impact on the concentration camps. Heydrich’s 2 July directive called for the Einsatzgruppen, operating just behind the front line, to kill ‘People’s Commissars’ – Soviet political officers. However, some of these commissars were not identified immediately after they had been captured, but were only discovered once they had been transferred to POW camps, far away from the Einsatzgruppen area of operation. This created a problem for the Nazis. Once these commissars had been singled out from the hundreds of thousands of other Soviet prisoners, how should they be murdered most efficiently? It was to resolve this issue that systematic mass killing began in concentration camps, in a secret action codenamed 14f14.
4. Bezaut, Oranienburg, Sachsenhausen, chapters 1 to 5.
But in the final months there were among the Nazis a certain number of fanatics ready to draw the maximum number of victims into their own destruction, and the concentration camp prisoners were ideal candidates to be the first of these victims. The account of the “evacuations” of April–May 1945, which make up the sixth part of this book, will show to what extent the danger was real.
79. Bailly, Un lycéen à Buchenwald, pp. 177–78.
6 Theodore S. Hamerow, Why We Watched: Europe, America, and the Holocaust, W. W. Norton, 2008, p. 349. The Roosevelt–Noguès and the Roosevelt–Giraud Conversations at the President’s Villa, noon and 4:20 p.m., 17 January 1943, Roosevelt Papers, McCrea Notes, in Foreign Relations of the United States: The Conferences at Washington 1941–1942 and Casablanca 1943, US Department of State, 1968, pp. 608–11.
27 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 210, together with previously unpublished testimony.
48 Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2012, pp. 407–8, Goebbels diary entry for 27 April 1944.
Eichmann was also directly involved in attempts to extort goods from Hungarian Jews, and in the process he made one of the most extraordinary proposals of the Final Solution. On 25 April 1944 he met a leading Budapest Jew called Joel Brand and told him that the Nazis were prepared to let ‘one million’ Jews go free as long as a suitable ransom was paid. ‘We are interested in goods, not in money,’ said Eichmann. ‘Travel abroad and liaise directly with your international authorities and with the Allies. And then come back with a concrete offer.’26 It is likely that Eichmann knew that such an offer was doomed from the beginning. Why would the Allies bargain for Jewish lives by supporting the Nazis with equipment that could be used to prolong the war? Especially when the Nazis said that any material the Allies handed to the Nazis in exchange for Jews would not be used on the western front – an obvious attempt to split the Alliance. But even if the negotiations stood little chance of success, Eichmann must have thought he would still benefit by them. That is because by suggesting this offer he would demonstrate to Himmler that he too could be as flexible as Becher, his SS colleague, at a time when the German war machine needed all the raw materials it could get.
11 Michael Phayer, The Catholic Church and the Holocaust, 1930–1965, Indiana University Press, 2000, pp. 240–45.
51 Rees, Auschwitz, pp. 104–5.
In the course of the several years it took to prepare and write this book, I very deeply felt the confidence and friendship of my friends from Dora, which was a very great help to me. I am referring to Louis Gamier, to Jean Mialet, and to Jacques Brun, and to the members of the board and historical commission of the Amicale Dora-Ellrich, Yves Béon, André Cardon, Max Dutillieux, Étienne Eckert, Lucien Fayman, Jean Gineston, Étienne Lafond, André Rogerie, Pierre Rozan, Georges Soubirous. I am also referring to the president of the Buchenwald-Dora Association, Guy Ducoloné, and to its general secretary, Jean Cormont, who was himself one of our friends from Dora. I received the same cooperation from the Belgian association,3 from Ernest Abel, Leopold Claessens, Xavier Delogne, Albert Van Hoey, Raymond Wautrecht, and the general secretary, Marie-Claire du Bois de Vroylande, daughter of a prisoner who died at Ellrich.
Still more evidence appears to come from an article in the Nazi newspaper Das Reich in November 1941, in which Goebbels publicly proclaimed that ‘The Jews wanted their war, and now they have it. But they also feel the effect of the prophecy made by the Führer in the German Reichstag on 30 January 1939, that if international financial Jewry should succeed in forcing nations once more into a world war, the result would not be the bolshevization of the earth, but the annihilation of the Jewish race in Europe … All Jews belong, due to their birth and race, to an international conspiracy against National Socialist Germany. They wish for our defeat and destruction and do everything in their power in order to help realize this. Every German soldier who is killed in this war is the responsibility of the Jews. They have him on their conscience, and that’s why they have to pay for it …’108
THE END OF THE KARLSHAGEN CAMP. As mentioned at the end of chapter 10, in early 1945 not only was there the rocket development factory with its technicians on the Peenemünde site, but also a concentration camp where the prisoners suffered from the cold, with a high mortality rate.32 The French survivors of this camp, Roger Predi, Pierre Pinault, and Jean Fournier, indicate that two transports of three hundred sick were sent to “rest camps,” the first on January 20 and the second a month later, without knowing their destination, which was no doubt Bergen-Belsen. The final days, in March, were taken up with dismantling of barracks and equipment, which was evacuated by sea. Fournier makes particular mention of a crane.
44 Kurt Jonassohn, with Karin Solveig Björnson, Genocide and Gross Human Rights Violations in Comparative Perspective, Transaction, 1999, p. 283.
Groeneveld,13 who escaped with a few nurses, was finally liberated by the Americans after three years in captivity. He asked to have some means to get home as quickly as possible, and for want of a car he was given a bicycle, “yellow with red tires” along with “a document stating, for your information, I was a doctor who has been liberated from the Dora concentration camp.” Thus he set off to cover between 250 and 312 miles, sleeping in barns. One day he finally arrived home in Nijmegen.
88. This evidence was gathered by Jacques-Guy Dussud, former prisoner in Peenemünde and in Dora, AADE.
In Belgium the Dora and Kommandos Political Prisoners’ Association was entirely distinct from the Buchenwald association.
The potential value to the Luftwaffe of these experiments was obvious. But not everyone in the German Air Force was content that human beings had died in the course of the trials. When, in October 1942, Dr Rascher presented his findings to senior figures in the Air Ministry, he detected an element of disquiet among his audience. Just before the meeting Himmler had stated his own position on the subject in a letter to Dr Rascher: ‘I believe that people objecting to these human experiments still today, who would rather German soldiers died of the consequences of this hypothermia, are high traitors, and I shall not refrain from mentioning the names of these gentlemen to the authorities in question.’10 There is even evidence that Himmler sought Hitler’s approval for this research, and that Hitler took the view that ‘in principle as far as the welfare of the state is concerned, human experimentation has to be tolerated.’11
Orders rang out, and the sound of rapid footsteps reached my room. The sounds came from the furnace rooms of the crematorium: they were preparing to welcome the new convoy. The throb of motors began. They had just set the enormous ventilators going to fan the flames, in order to obtain the desired degree in the ovens. Fifteen ventilators were going simultaneously, one beside each oven. The incineration room was about 500 feet long: it was a bright, whitewashed room with a concrete floor and barred windows. Each of these fifteen ovens was housed in a red brick structure. Immense iron doors, well-polished and gleaming, ominously lined the length of the wall. In five or six minutes the convoy reached the gate, whose swing-doors opened inwards. Five abreast, the group entered the courtyard; it was the moment about which the outside world knew nothing, for anyone who might have known something about it, after having traveled the path of his destiny—the 300 yards separating that spot from the ramp—had never returned to tell the tale. It was one of the crematoriums which awaited those who had been selected for the left-hand column. And not, as the German lie had made the right-hand column suppose in order to allay their anxiety, a camp for the sick and children, where the infirm cared for the little ones.
In January 1961, she and her husband and two daughters took an aeroplane to Addis Ababa, where Nahum had been appointed consul and she had been appointed to a staff position at a United Nations economic aid organisation. From 1966 to 1970, Nahum was counsellor at the Paris embassy, and Nina worked for an investment company as an economic consultant. In 1971, they returned to Israel, where Nina became the director of the Israel-America Chamber of Commerce, and Nahum started working for the Mossad, the Israeli intelligence service.
FOR THE MOMENT MY SITUATION WAS tolerable. Dr. Mengele expected me to perform the work of a physician. I would probably be sent to some German city as a replacement for a German doctor who had been drafted into military service, and whose functions had included pathology and forensic medicine. Moreover, I was filled with hope by the fact that, by Dr. Mengele’s orders, I had not been issued a prisoner’s burlap, but an excellent suit of civilian clothes.
55 Jürgen Matthäus and Mark Roseman (eds.), Jewish Responses to Persecution, vol. 1: 1933–1938, AltaMira Press/US Holocaust Memorial Museum, 2010, WJC Memorandum, July 1938, USHMMA RG 11.001 M.36, reel 106 (SAM 1190-1-257), document 11-3, pp. 314–18.
58 Longerich, Holocaust, p. 138.
It was pointed out in chapter 12 that the new commander of the Woffleben camp, Kleemann, also came from Auschwitz. More precisely, he was the commander of the camp annex Bismarckshütte, where Hofstein was doctor. The prisoners were not aware of the changes that had occurred in the command of Dora. It was for them of no consequence. Henceforth the dreaded character was Sander—from the Gestapo. Nor were the prisoners aware of the name Roman Drung, the new LÄ, a Green.
About seven o’clock, while I was dictating the affidavit to the SS clerk, the heavy truck loaded with prisoners entered the courtyard. Two windows, barred and covered with metal mosquito netting, looked out on the crematorium’s rear courtyard. All the occupants were extremely calm. From this I deduced that they had been selected not out of the barracks, but from the hospitals. They were all seriously ill, too weak to scream or even to climb down from the raised platform of the truck.
The main character of this novel is a young Jewish journalist from Vienna who, after being interned in Buchenwald, sets out from Trieste for Shanghai. Michèle Kahn offers a penetrating look at Jewish life under the Chinese sun from 1939 to 1948. The novel hews very closely to historical fact; for example, Benjamin Fishoff (see Chapter 44) appears under his own name. When I corresponded with Michèle Kahn, she was so kind as to tell me what sources she used.
The author has carefully examined Rassinier’s testimony, just as he examined the testimonies of the other Dora prisoners, and refers to it in six different chapters. This analysis confirms that Rassinier only followed the common lot from January 30 to April 8, 1944: his arrival at Buchenwald, quarantine, transfer to Dora, and assignment to an earthworks Kommando. On April 8, 1944, he went into the Dora Revier and remained there under privileged conditions until April 1945. His stay in the Revier was interrupted only by brief returns to the camp and by a stint in the service of a noncommissioned SS officer between December 23, 1944, and March 10, 1945. He thus had no direct experience of the tunnel nor of any of the other Mittelbau camps. Most of the indications that he provides stem from conversations with fellow prisoners who arrived sick in the Revier. They were generally very approximate, and on several occasions entirely erroneous.
THE CREMATORIUM. Lagerkommando members lived in dread of being conscripted into the Sonderkommando, the “Special Kommando” that unloaded trucks of corpses from exterior camps such as Ellrich and transported them to the crematorium. There are eyewitness accounts: one by Sermot35 and one by Bérard/Schreve,36 before he joined the Kleiderkammer.
The same business-as-usual attitude that enabled Dr. Nyiszli to function as a doctor in the camp, that motivated him to volunteer his help to the SS, enabled millions of Jews to live in ghettos where they not only worked for the Nazis but selected fellow Jews for them to send to the gas chambers. It was similar inertia if not also the “business-as-usual” attitude that postponed the uprising in the Warsaw ghetto till hardly any people or any strength was left for fighting, and certainly far too few to make a break-through that might have saved thousands of lives.
There is no evidence that the Germans asked the Vichy government to impose these anti-Semitic measures.27 Indeed, Pétain personally altered a draft of the October statutes in order to make the regulations still harsher.28 The disturbing truth is that the French authorities persecuted the Jews because they chose to, not because they were told to. For the Jews of France, this evidence that fellow French citizens were prepared to victimize them was devastating. ‘I cried last evening,’ wrote Raymond-Raoul Lambert in his diary on 19 October 1940, ‘as a man might cry who has suddenly been abandoned by the woman who was the sole love of his life, his mentor and the guide of his actions.’29
The formalities were the same, whether it was a case of suicide or murder. In the evening, at roll call, the names of the deceased would be scratched from the muster list, and their bodies loaded onto “hearses” for transportation to the camp morgue. There another truck would pick them up, at the rate of forty to fifty a day, and bear them to the crematorium.
Perhaps comparing the two physicians who survived Auschwitz may suggest an answer. Dr. Frankl, who during imprisonment searched continuously for the personal meaning of his experience as a concentration camp prisoner, thereby found the deeper meaning of his life and life in general. Other prisoners who, like Doctor Nyiszli, were concerned with mere survival—even if it meant helping SS doctors in their nefarious experiments with human beings—gained no deeper meaning from their horrible experience. And so they survived in body, haunted by remorse and nightmarish recollections.
22 Susan Zuccotti, The Italians and the Holocaust: Persecution, Rescue and Survival, University of Nebraska Press, 1996, p. 77. Michele Sarfatti, The Jews in Mussolini’s Italy: From Equality to Persecution, University of Wisconsin Press, 2006, pp. 159–60.
Far from being the single most significant meeting in the history of the Holocaust, the Wannsee conference was a forum for second-level functionaries to discuss ways of implementing their master’s wishes. None of the key players attended the meeting. Not Himmler, not Frank, not Goebbels – certainly not Hitler himself. Vital decisions about the fate of the Jews had been taken in the weeks and months before the Wannsee conference. Even then, there had not been one single decision – one day on which Hitler announced ‘all the Jews must die, in this way and within this timescale’ – but a series of decisions that built, one upon the other, until those around the table at Wannsee would have felt that the extermination of the Jews was inevitable. They still did not know for sure how this end could be achieved, or how long it would take. There remained, for instance, the question of the destruction of the 3 million Polish Jews – a final timetable for their murder, as we shall see, was not to be announced for many months.
37 Tomasz Kranz, Extermination of Jews at Majdanek Concentration Camp, State Museum, Majdanek, 2010, p. 13.
Three people were seated in the room: Dr. Mengele; Hauptsturmführer Dr. Thilo, head surgeon of the KZ; and Obersturmführer Dr. Wolff, director of the General Medical Service. Dr. Mengele informed Dr. Wolff, whom I had not previously met, that it was I who performed the autopsies in the crematoriums.
32. Christian Wirth, one of the most infamous of all Holocaust perpetrators. A veteran of the T4 ‘euthanasia’ programme, he was the first commandant of Bełz˙ec death camp and later inspector of all the Operation Reinhard camps.
A second camp, at Osterode-Petershütte, corresponded to the Dachs IV project and had to do with underground work carried out by the Todt Organization for refining mineral oil. It is known about through Hofstein’s testimony. In January 1945, Dr. Jules Hofstein,16 a French Jew, found himself at Dora following an evacuation from Auschwitz. He came from the Bismarckshütte annex Kommando, where he had been the doctor. He was transferred to Osterode, also as a doctor.
It is difficult to dissociate the study of the Harzungen camp from that of the Ell-rich camp for a number of reasons. The first is that the two camps’ labor forces were involved on the same series of work sites; the second is that the camps developed simultaneously during the first months, beginning with the first convoys coming from Buchenwald; lastly because there were exchanges of prisoners between the two camps. The Woffleben camp came only later, functioning during the final months to house a portion of the prisoners from Ellrich working on digging out B 12.
In the moments that followed we experienced certain phases of what, at Auschwitz, was called “selection.” As for the subsequent phases, everyone lived through them according to his particular fate.
It was already past midnight, but my curiosity kept me from feeling tired. I listened carefully to the barracks chief’s every word. He knew the complete organization of the KZ, the names of the SS commanders in each camp section, as well as those of the prisoners who occupied important posts. I learned that the Auschwitz KZ was not a work camp, but the largest extermination camp in the Third Reich. He also told me of the “selections” that were made daily in the hospitals and the barracks. Hundreds of prisoners were loaded every day onto trucks and transported to the crematoriums, only a few hundred yards away.
55 Quoted in http://chgs.umn.edu/histories/documentary/hadamar/ignorance.html, University of Minnesota, Center for Holocaust Studies.
28 David Cesarani, Final Solution: The Fate of the Jews 1933–49, Macmillan, 2016, p. 727.
After the Wannsee conference, the first Jews from a foreign country to be handed over en masse to the Nazis came from Slovakia. But the history of why Slovak Jews were crammed on to freight trucks on their way to Auschwitz in the spring of 1942 demonstrates once again that the development of the Nazis’ Final Solution was anything but straightforward.
In 2007, I went to Lithuania in search of stories for my book Baltische zielen (Baltic Souls, Amsterdam, 2010). There I learned a great deal more about the thousands of Jews who had escaped, on the Trans-Siberian Express, from certain death in a concentration camp. What was news to me was the decisive role played in the rescue operation by the Dutch consul, Jan Zwartendijk. The professor of Yiddish at Vilnius University, Dovid Katz, took me to the Jewish Museum and showed me photographs of the consul and his family. I considered including the consul’s life story in the book I was then writing, but Zwartendijk had grown up in Rotterdam and spent only three years in Lithuania – there was no way I could turn him into a Baltic soul.
15 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 91.
On 19 July 1942, on a visit to Poland, Himmler ordered that the ‘resettlement of the entire Jewish population of the General Government’ should be ‘carried out and completed by 31 December 1942’.2 According to Himmler, a ‘comprehensive clearing out’ was necessary. This was a euphemistic way of saying that he wanted virtually all of these Jews to be murdered by the end of the year.
GROENEVELD, THE DUTCH DOCTOR. Born in 1907, H. L. (known as Hessel) Groeneveld set up his medical practice in Nijmegen in 1935. He belonged to the Mennonite Church, an important church in the Netherlands, where it was created in the sixteenth century. Groeneveld joined the Resistance, was arrested, and escaped. He tried to reach the Pyrenees but was once again arrested during a roundup in the Paris métro in November 1942. Imprisoned for many months in Paris, he was then transferred to Compiègne in the spring of 1943 and deported in June to Buchenwald, where he was assigned the identity number 14340. Some Dutch friends managed to place him as a nurse in the Revier.
“I am here because Dr. Mengele sent for me,” I said. “But if it’s impossible for me to get into F Camp, then I’d better return to the crematorium and let Dr. Mengele know by telephone.”
THE END OF AUSCHWITZ AND PEENEMÜNDE
28. Mordechai Chaim Rumkowski seated in his private carriage. One of the most controversial Jewish figures of the Holocaust, Rumkowski was accused of exploiting his position as leader of the ghetto for his own benefit – including by sexually assaulting women.
During this period, as explained in chapter 6, there were 2,882 Dora prisoners incinerated at Buchenwald. Hein’s statements, based on Dora documents, show 2,844 deaths. The difference is insignificant given the conditions prevailing at the time. What is important is the percentage of deaths compared to the average head count during the four months from December 1943 to March 1944. In February it was 4.5 percent and in December and March it was 6.5 percent.
At Dora the commemoration came later and was more discreet. A memorial was set up only in 1964 in the form of a sculpted group of five prisoners on a small square near the crematorium, which had been preserved. Only a few barracks remained; all that was left of the others were the foundations progressively grown over by the vegetation. That was already the case in 1950.
The history of this concentration camp has been written by Jean Bezaut,4 who was a prisoner there. The name of his book is Oranienburg 1933–1935, Sachsenhausen 1936–1945. As the title indicates, as early as 1933 there was already a camp in Oranienburg in a former brewery where the Nazis, in this case the SA, interned their political opponents. The camp came under SS control in 1934 and was closed in 1935. Another one, called Sachsenhausen, was built on a new site starting in July 1936. It quickly grew into a large camp, and prisoners from Sachsenhausen were sent on to open the camps of Neuengamme, Gross Rosen, and Auschwitz.
What the history of the Greek and Danish Jews demonstrates once again is how the Germans could implement their Final Solution in radically different ways in different countries. And in deciding how much they wanted to find and deport Jews in each individual place – something that, as we have seen, was a crucial element in determining how many Jews subsequently died – the Germans would, of course, have been influenced by a whole range of other factors. Such as how easy it was to deport the Jews in practical terms, the political consequences of deporting them, how ‘racially’ dangerous they considered the particular Jews to be, whether the Jews lived near the front line or not, and so on.
38 Rees, Auschwitz, pp. 243–4.
16. Cardon-Hamet, Mille Otages pour Auschwitz, p. 440. Interview with Abada by Henri Alleg in 1972.
To explain these deaths, over a year, it must of course be taken into account—but to what degree?—the circumstances particular to Bergen-Belsen. It must also be taken into account the (rare) cases of those who, considered cured, were sent back in August 1944 to Buchenwald and from there to Dora. This was the case of Didier Bourget and Roger Tricoire. It was also the case of the Slovenian Matija Zadravec. The first convoy took those involved by surprise. Afterward, some of the sick became suspicious. Rieg had only barely recovered than he got out of the Revier.19 Dutillieux didn’t linger in the Schonung. Others let themselves be dragged along through lassitude. As Rogerie has revealed: “I coughed off and on along with violent coughing fits. But, tonight there was some excitement in the Tunnel. A ‘transport’ was being prepared. Everyone unable to work had to leave the premises that night: the Revier, the Schonung, the sick, everyone had to take the train the very next day—Sunday—to an unknown destination—to a better camp, so it seemed. In fact, it was an extermination transport, but I wasn’t aware of that yet and it was—my God—with great satisfaction that I saw my name noted down so I could also take part in this expedition.”20 Bronchart pointed out that he wasn’t able to convince Étienne Bordeaux Montrieux not to go.21
Tunnels A and B seemed threatened, and in August 1991 a wave of concern was expressed in the local press. If the Kohnstein massif were to collapse, ecologists predicted a considerable impact on the local microclimate. The Dora European Committee, the French and Belgian associations, and the International Buchenwald-Dora Committee made contact with the federal government, the Land of Thuringia, and the Nordhausen Landkreis.
For a variety of reasons the concentration camp world was not, for many years, systematically studied from a truly historical perspective. In 1945 we were confronted with a previously unknown type of institution—unknown, at any rate, in terms of the extent of its criminal perfection. Its analysis was not made any easier by the mediocrity of information provided by those in charge of the camps themselves—that is, the SS. From 1933 to 1945, everything that had anything to do with the camps was secret, and many of the relevant documents were destroyed during the war’s final weeks.
Unlike in France, the Germans were also able to deal with the Dutch Jews through a single umbrella organization – the Jewish Council. The leaders of the Jewish Council – Dr David Cohen and Abraham Asscher – were later vilified. Many saw their cooperation with the Germans in the deportation process as betrayal. In part this was because the Jewish Council was granted 17,500 exemption certificates by the Germans in 1942 which meant that members of the Council and their families were spared deportation, albeit temporarily. When Cohen and Asscher were themselves eventually deported, they were sent not to the death camps of the east but to concentration camps within the Old Reich and Protectorate, and both survived the war.
26 SIME report no. 1 on the interrogation of Joel Brand, 16–30 June 1944, file no. SIME/P 7769, PRO FO 371/42811. Also Rees, Auschwitz, p. 227.
A STEEP DEATH RATE. Using the Greffier List, it is possible to plunge still further into what can be known about the first months of Dora by cross-referencing the information on the times of death with that of the dates of arrival inferred from the identity numbers. It can be assumed then that the prisoners who had similar identity numbers—the “21,000”s for example—all arrived at Dora at the same time, that is, after being released from quarantine at Buchenwald. However, it is known that some of the French remained in Buchenwald for a more or less long while before being sent to Dora. But examination of the survivor list shows that the number of such cases was limited during the time frame under consideration.
With an emphasis on regional and everyday life, West German research on concentration camps in the mid-1980s took a new direction. The Hanover studies of Rainer Fröbe and others were soon followed by numerous and sometimes detailed studies of various satellite camps.9 But most of these studies were devoted primarily to the history of a specific camp. Studies on camp complexes were found wanting.10 A further shortcoming of the research at the time was the lack of examination of the linkage between the concentration camps and other types of camps, especially those for prisoners of war and foreign laborers.11
The 1947 trial was not satisfying—but that was not due to any inadequacies in the prosecution. It lacked, both as defendants and witnesses, the main protagonists. The principal defendant should have been Kammler, as much for the tunnel in the first months as for the work sites subsequently under the control of his Sonderstab. He had disappeared in May 1945. The camp’s first commander, Förschner, was not there either: he had been executed after the trial of the Dachau camp. Also missing was his successor, Baer, who was in hiding. He would later be arrested, charged with acts committed at Auschwitz, and would die in prison before coming to trial. Also absent was the SS Dr. Plaza, who was dead.
This manner of writing history accounts for the characteristics of the Buchenwald monument. “It represents a child and ten men. But their faces are not emaciated; they bear none of the stigmata of death. The group’s stance is that of fighters, brandishing flag and rifle, the hand clenched in a fist or raised as if to swear an oath: the victims are at once fighters and victors.”1
Kalman was later part of a commando that cleaned out the barracks where the women had their heads shaved before entering the gas chambers. ‘When we cleaned these barracks of the clothing,’ he remembers, ‘there were cases where we found babies underneath these piles. I guess the mothers left them there, maybe so they might be rescued.’ When he and his comrades found these babies they carried them to a fenced-off area of the camp where the sick were taken, known as the Lazarett (German for military hospital). But when Jews arrived at the Lazarett they discovered that, just as at Sobibór, it wasn’t a hospital at all but an execution area where the sick were shot and then thrown into a pit. ‘There was a white fence around it,’ says Kalman, ‘and on this fence there was a sign of the Red Cross, so people who came there didn’t know where they were going at all … such things are hard to describe.’ He remembers that the babies found in the barracks were either shot and thrown into the pit or – if bodies were already being burnt – thrown directly on to the fire. ‘How did I feel?’ says Kalman. ‘I didn’t feel anything … I became an automaton. No thoughts. I only worried about not getting beaten and sometimes I worried about having a full stomach and that’s it. I didn’t think and I didn’t feel. I saw hell if such a thing exists.’31
Lengyel, too, mentions Dr. Mengele, one of the protagonists of Auschwitz, in a typical example of the “business as usual” attitude that enabled some prisoners, and certainly the SS, to retain whatever inner balance they could despite what they were doing. She describes how Dr. Mengele took all correct medical precautions during childbirth; for example, rigorously observing all aseptic principles, cutting the umbilical cord with greatest care, etc. But only half an hour later he sent mother and infant to be burnt in the crematorium.
After the war Kasztner was criticized not only for giving places on the train to his friends and relations, but for causing the deaths of large numbers of other Hungarian Jews by not warning them that the Nazis planned on deporting them to Auschwitz. On the first charge he is guilty, but on the second the evidence is less clear cut. While it is true that on a visit to his hometown of Cluj he didn’t alert people to the Nazis’ true intentions, it is doubtful if an intervention by him would have made any difference. Jewish youth movements within Hungary, like Hashomer Hatzair, Maccabi Hatzair and Bnei Akiva, had made a concerted effort to warn Jews in the provinces of the dangers they faced, but in every case their warnings were ignored.40 In part that was because of the lack of options the Jews faced – there were few mountains or thick forests in which to hide, and many of the non-Jewish locals were anti-Semitic – and partly it was a desire to block out the idea that the terrible rumours might be true. ‘People didn’t listen to whatever they heard,’ says Éva Speter, ‘because people don’t want to believe – never want to believe – the worst. They always try to believe something that’s better … Hope is one of the best qualities that men get from when they are born.’41
Like all revolutionaries, Hitler was not concerned whether his ideas succeeded at the ballot box. He did not have to worry whether or not a majority of Germans supported Nazi policies – such as his desire to strip the Jews of their citizenship – which was just as well for him, because there was no evidence that most Germans supported this radical idea. The Nazis, it should be remembered, were still a fringe party opposed by substantial groups who despised their anti-Semitic and racist beliefs. Indeed, a study of voting patterns at national elections in the early 1920s reveals that a majority of Germans voted for parties who did not agree with anti-Semitic policies.50 Nor should it be forgotten that there were many Germans, like Josef Felder, later a Social Democratic member of the Reichstag, who felt revulsion when they heard what Hitler had to say. He remembers listening to one of Hitler’s anti-Semitic diatribes in the early 1920s and afterwards remarking to a friend that ‘hopefully’ Hitler ‘would never come to power’.51
14 Testimony from Touched by Auschwitz, transmitted on BBC2, 20 January 2015.
34 Fleming, Auschwitz, p. 116, Anthony Eden, House of Commons, 17 December 1942.
As indicated above, beginning in the months of May and June 1944 there were prisoners of every nationality at Ellrich, who had transited through Bischofferode/Woffleben or Harzungen, and then arrived from Buchenwald, in some cases via Dora. There were Poles and Russians as well as Czechs, French and Belgians, Hungarian Jews, and German Gypsies. The population at the end of May was 1,696 persons—and by the end of June had reached 2,880.
113 Michael Thad Allen, ‘The Devil in the Details: The Gas Chambers of Birkenau, October 1941’, Holocaust and Genocide Studies, vol. 16, no. 2, Autumn 2002, pp. 189–216. Rees, Auschwitz, pp. 82–3.
15 Christopher Browning, The Origins of the Final Solution, Heinemann, 2004, p. 212. Also Peter Longerich, Heinrich Himmler, Oxford University Press, 2012, pp. 663–4.
In spite of this sign, we entered without the guards even asking us for our pass. The reason was simple: the SS guards on duty here were from the crematoriums, and the 60 Sonderkommando men who worked at the pyre were also crematorium personnel from number two. At present the day shift was on. They worked from seven in the morning till seven in the evening, when they were replaced by the night watch, which also consisted of 60 men, taken from number four.
36. Oranienburg-Sachsenhausen Former Prisoners’ Association, Sachso, pp. 566–73.
Thus the Auschwitz muster rolls were reduced by more than 12,000 “units,” and one more bloody page was added to the Auschwitz archives. That page contained only the following brief inscription: “The Czech section of the Auschwitz concentration camp was liquidated this date due to a prevalence of typhus among the prisoners. Signed: Dr. Mengele, Hauptsturmführer I Lagerazt.”
ERHARD BRAUNY. Born 1913. A professional dyer, from September 1937 a member of camp SS in Buchenwald. Served in 1942–1943 with SS Construction Brigade III in Cologne and subsequently was for six months at Dachau. Became commander of the Buchenwald satellite camp Wernigerode and then returned as Rapportführer (in charge of daily reports) to Dora. From November 1944 to April 1945 led satellite camp Rottlebrode. After the Dachau Dora trial he was sentenced to life in prison. Died in prison in Landsberg in 1950.
But it wasn’t just the chance to get rich that motivated the SS to work at Auschwitz. As Oskar Groening says, they were told that their work was important for the security of the Reich, that the Jews were behind Bolshevism, and that it was necessary to keep fighting in this war to prevent the Red Army destroying Germany. As a result, Groening and his comrades remained committed to participating in the mass murder of civilians – from the very old to the very young.
18. The main camp at Auschwitz (ITAR-TASS / TopFoto)
FROM SACHSENHAUSEN AND RAVENSBRÜCK TO THE SCHWERIN REGION
As a result of this short conversation, Samuel Willenberg escaped the gas chambers. The SS lined up the Jews who had just entered the camp and asked if there were any bricklayers among the new arrivals. Samuel immediately volunteered. He thought, correctly as it turned out, that he could acquire enough of the trade quickly enough to fool the SS. So he became a member of the Sonderkommando.
Ordinarily, military trucks were seldom used to transport prisoners. They were used to bring prisoners from Buchenwald to Dora during the first few months, but only because of the considerable manpower requirements at the time. That was not the case for the evacuations. Transport by barges or marches in columns on foot were only stopgap solutions for want of railway transport. On a number of occasions prisoners who were marching on foot were put onto trains to finish the journey.
We crossed a clearing and came to a small pine forest. Once again we found our way blocked by a fence and gate strung with barbed wire. A large sign, similar to those on the crematorium gates, was posted here:
One of the best first-hand accounts is Shanghai Refugee: a memoir of the World War II Jewish Ghetto by Ernest G. Heppner (University of Nebraska Press, 1993). Heppner was one of the first authors to focus on Zwartendijk. He befriended Jan Zwartendijk junior, who showed Heppner all the historical source materials he had found, and discussed them with him. After his death in 2004, Heppner left his archive to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. It can be consulted online in digital form.
Rudolf Höss, the commandant of Auschwitz, wrote in his memoirs that Jews walked to their death under the ‘blossom-laden fruit trees of the cottage orchard’. He recorded that one woman, who clearly realized what was about to happen to her, whispered to him, ‘How can you bring yourself to kill such beautiful, darling children? Have you no heart at all?’56 Höss claimed he found such scenes ‘shattering’, but these incidents made no difference to his absolute commitment to the killing process.
Majdanek’s evolution mirrored in many ways the development of the Nazis’ Final Solution. Like Auschwitz Birkenau, it was originally conceived as a camp for Soviet prisoners of war. Construction began in the autumn of 1941, and barracks for around 20,000 prisoners were completed by the end of the year. From the start Majdanek was a place where death was commonplace. Starving prisoners slept on the bare ground in unheated barracks through the freezing Polish winter of 1941–2. They were at risk from a range of infections, including typhoid. But by the time new arrivals came to the camp in the spring of 1942, Majdanek’s function had changed. No longer a prisoner-of-war camp, it had now become a sorting centre for the Final Solution. Several thousand Slovak Jews were sent to the camp between the end of March and the middle of June 1942. Occasionally trains transporting Jews to Sobibór would stop near by and a selection would be made, with some Jews diverted to Majdanek as forced labourers.
THE SOVIETS AND THE CAMPS IN GERMANY. Given the notoriety of the camps in Germany—and especially of Buchenwald—in the Western countries, one might normally have expected a generally positive attitude as well from the Soviet authorities, henceforth established in the east of Germany and particularly in Thuringia. There was nothing of the sort.
Meanwhile, in number three crematorium, roll call continued. Now it was the turn of the Greeks, who failed to show a similar alacrity in lining up, but nevertheless obeyed. Next, a group of Poles. Grumbles and muttered protests swelled to a surly roar. The SS called another number. Silence; no one moved. When the officer raised his head and frowned a bottle of mineral water fell at his feet and exploded. Seven SS, including the group commander, fell dead or wounded. The bottle had been thrown by one of the Poles. The SS opened a deadly fire on the rioters, who retreated and took up defensive positions inside the crematorium. Thus protected, they began tossing other explosive-filled bottles into the courtyard. A burst of machine-gun fire from some of the SS mowed down the Greeks, who were still lined up in the courtyard. A few tried to escape, but were killed as they reached the gate.
Delarbre (Léon), Croquis clandestins, Auschwitz, Buchenwald, Bergen, Dora (Paris: Michel de Romilly, 1945).
The forthcoming war in the east also offered fresh possibilities for a solution to an existing Nazi problem: just where should the Jews be deported? As early as 21 January 1941, Theodor Dannecker, the SD officer from Eichmann’s department based in Paris, had learnt that ‘In accordance with the Führer’s wishes, after the war a final solution will be found for the Jewish question within the territories ruled and controlled by Germany.’71 Dannecker added that Reinhard Heydrich had been told to devise a plan to bring this ‘huge task’ about. One idea was to deport the Jews first to the General Government in Poland, where they would await onward transportation to a destination yet to be decided.72
Unfortunately, this concerned only half of what the camp population had been on April 6: the SS had meanwhile managed to haul twenty-three thousand prisoners into the evacuation convoys. The often tragic situation of the Kommandos outside of Buchenwald will be dealt with in part 6. Thus, it was not in fact a single camp that was liberated but rather two side-by-side camps. The normal camp was the “large camp,” in which the prisoners were generally able-bodied. But there was also a “small camp” for the ailing that had a very high mortality rate, into which the others were normally not permitted. The image the Americans made public, after their discovery of Ohrdruf on April 5, followed by Eisenhower, Patton, and Bradley’s visit to Ohrdruf on April 12, was one of beds in a small camp with its emaciated sick, one of whom was Elie Wiesel. This, along with the crematorium, was what was shown to journalists and delegations coming from the United States—particularly the congressional delegation that arrived at Buchenwald on April 24.3
An excellent collection of testimonies has been put together by the Amicale des anciens déportés à Neu Stassfurt (Association of Former [French] Deportees to Neu Stassfurt). It was published in 1996 under the title Un pas, encore un pas . . . pour survivre20 (One Step, Another Step . . . to Survive). The title refers to the long and murderous evacuation from Neu Stassfurt all the way to the Erzgebirge, which will be looked at in greater detail in chapter 20. Some 20 percent of the French in the Kommando died in the camp (97 out of 493), above all in the final months. They were incinerated in the Magdeburg crematorium until late February 1945. The crematorium having been destroyed in a bombing raid, the final victims were buried in a mass grave.
Interest in the Ellrich camp was relaunched by the German historian Manfred Bornemann, whose Chronik des Lagers Ellrich was written in 1987. He was in contact with former deportees, including the Belgian Ernest Abel. Through him, contact was established between a town councilor from Walkenried, Mrs. Ruth Monicke, and Van Hoey, the representative of the Belgian association of former Dora prisoners. The decision was made in June 1989 to erect a monument near the foundations of the crematorium, which were finally located. When the stele was inaugurated on May 13, 1989, reunification had already taken place and those participating in the ceremony traveled freely from the east and the west.4
CHARLES SADRON. “One night, coming back up from the factory into a snowstorm, we made out on the roll-call grounds, a black, immobile mass in the semi-darkness. It looked like men. At the Block, we were told it was forbidden to go out. What was going on? We were soon informed by fellow prisoners who were above ground during the day, and who were returning worn out and somber. The Germans had evacuated the camp at Auschwitz, and thousands of prisoners had arrived. These poor souls had spent two weeks on a train, in open-topped railway cars, and they had arrived in a pathetic state. Our fellow prisoners had seen their columns emerge onto the roll-call grounds—clusters of dying men collapsing in the snow. They had been rounded up by the Lagerschutz to get rid of the corpses which followed behind in the trucks. They carted them off, nauseated, for hours. Many of the corpses had been shot in the head.”15
Only in Britain was there a substantial increase in the number of refugees admitted. In a gradual process that had begun in the wake of the Anschluss and continued after Kristallnacht, restrictions were eased so that 50,000 Jews from Germany and German-controlled territory could enter Britain before the outbreak of war.87 Around 9,000 children travelled to the country on what became known as ‘Kindertransports’. Rudi Bamber and his younger sister were two of those who managed to get visas to come to Britain just before the war began. Rudi remembers that there had to be ‘a lot of planning’ put into his emigration. ‘Every bit of clothing – everything which I took – had to be listed and approved by the authorities.’ Before his exit was finally authorized, Rudi also had to appear before a tribunal: ‘There were Nazi officials and army officers, Gestapo and police sitting round … It was absurd because the general who was in charge of this sort of said “Oh yes, you’re in agriculture. You’re going to go to the colonies presumably to farm there.” I said “Oh yes.” I would have said yes to anything … Nobody mentioned the word “Jew” at the time.’88
The Witnesses were particularly vulnerable after an order issued in May 1937 declared that they could be sent to concentration camps on mere suspicion of wrongdoing. Once inside the camps, Jehovah’s Witnesses were often singled out for terrible mistreatment. At the post-war trial of guards at Sachsenhausen, one builder working at the camp testified that ‘During the autumn of 1938 I was working as a mason on construction when Blockführer Sorge and Blockführer Bugdalle came on the job site and ordered a group of prisoners to dig a hole to the depth of a man, and they put in a Witness whose name was Bachuba and buried him up to his neck. Sorge and Bugdalle laughingly made sport of him. Then, when there was nothing left but his head above ground they urinated on his head. They left him for another hour in the grave. When he was dug up and pulled out on the ground he was still alive but he couldn’t stand on his legs.’30
THE TRIALS OF LATE 1945. In the American zone the trials took place at Dachau, and the accused were imprisoned in the former concentration camp. Those condemned to prison sentences were sent to serve them in the Landsberg prison. The first two major trials had to do with the camps of Mauthausen and Dachau. The preparation of the prosecution for these trials was relatively quick. These had been the last camps to be liberated, and the SS had neither the time nor any place to hide. As an American historian put it, the first trials “concentrated on proving guilt by circumstance,” which meant, for instance, that the camp commander was automatically held responsible for all the atrocities perpetrated in his camp. The death sentences and hangings were thus more numerous for Mauthausen and Dachau than they were to be subsequently for Buchenwald.
At Buchenwald he was first sent to the bunker, until it was noticed that he kept coming back on a regular basis. He was then assigned to the Block 50 Kommando, which was made up of sixty-five prisoners of all origins, including seven Jews. There were many scholars as well as politicians, in particular the Austrian Eugen Kogon, who had a powerful influence on the SS doctor, Dr. Ding-Schuler. The latter was the head of both Block 50 and Block 46, where medical experiments were carried out on prisoners, in particular against exan-thematic typhus, and where prisoners who were (often terminally) ill with typhus were also hospitalized. Blocks 46 and 50 were isolated from the rest of the camp, and the SS in particular never went in.
96 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 85.
It was Walter Bartel’s newfound status that best translated the overall rehabilitation in the GDR of the Buchenwald communists and their leadership. In 1957 he became director in Berlin of the Institut für Zeitgeschichte, and then in 1962, Professor für Neuere und Neueste Geschichte (professor of modern and contemporary history) at the Humboldt University in Berlin. In 1959 he edited the camp’s international committee’s publication of Buchenwald Mahnung und Verpflichtung, which became a fundamental work on the subject. That very German title could be translated as: Buchenwald: Admonition and Obligation.
Most of the specialists were recruited between December 1943 and March 1944, as noted in chapter 5. This was the period during which the arrival of new prisoners from Buchenwald could barely offset the number of prisoner deaths and departures in “transports.” There are no German documents concerning the conditions under which recruitment was conducted. There was a prisoner-employment office called the Häftlingsarbeitseinsatz, which is known to have been run by a certain Dr. Simon. All our information comes from the firsthand accounts of a number of prisoners.
The SS doctor Kurzke gave the doctors and nurses the freedom to join the evacuation convoys or to stay—the personal risk being real in either of the two hypotheses.38 Groeneveld, Petit, Lobstein, Doucet, Chabaud, and Lassus, among others, chose to leave. Lemière, Girard, Morel, Croizat, Ebel, Canivet, and also Durand stayed at Dora. Lobstein remembers all the Jews being summoned by loudspeaker to the roll-call area, to which Hermann Scharf—a gynecologist from Temesvar assigned to the Revier after the evacuation of Auschwitz—responded. His fellow prisoners wanted to hide him, but he refused by saying: “I must share the fate of my people.” No one ever saw him again.
Just suppose for a moment that circumstances had been such that the Nazis had adopted one of these methods, instead of going on as they did to create the death camps. Would the world have been so appalled? Would one of these methods of extermination still have been called a ‘Holocaust’? Perhaps not, because the factories of death the Nazis created in the east represented a particular horror – the cold, mechanistic destruction of human life in an instant, a crime that was symbolic of the worst extremes of the industrial age, somehow an even more haunting means of extermination than the mass shootings the Nazi killing squads would carry out elsewhere in the east at the same time. But we should still remember that the death camps were just one means to the same end that all of these other potential ‘solutions’ offered – the elimination of the Jews.
As a matter of fact it was almost dinner time. I followed them up the stairs to the second story of the crematorium where the prisoners lived: an enormous room, with comfortable bunks lining both walls. The bunks were made of unpainted wood, but on each one silk coverlets and embroidered pillows shone. This colorful, expensive bedding was completely out of keeping with the atmosphere of the place. It had not been made here, but left by members of earlier convoys who had brought it with them into captivity. The Sonderkommando was allowed to draw it from the storerooms and use it.
Others were more realistic about the political situation. Manfred von Schröder, the suave son of a banker who joined the Nazi party in 1933, believed that the concentration camps were the understandable by-product of a ‘revolution’. ‘Have you seen in history’, he says, ‘any revolution without nasty aspects on one side or the other?’58 The Austrian-born Nazi Reinhard Spitzy echoes this view: ‘In all revolutions – and we thought we have a revolution, a Nationalist Socialist revolution – blood is running.’59
In early summer 1942, family transports began to arrive from Slovakia for the first time. The SS now began a selection process on the dusty ground next to the railway line, halfway between Auschwitz main camp and Auschwitz Birkenau. In this area, known as the ‘ramp’, SS medical personnel spent a few seconds assessing each new arrival, and sent those picked to work as forced labour to one side, and those they had chosen to die to another.
As a result of these raids, more than 2,000 Jews were imprisoned in conditions that were appalling even by Nazi standards. In Buchenwald many slept in the open. For some of the SS guards the arrival of the Jews offered an opportunity for them to vent both their anger and their sadism. Once admitted to the camp, the Jews were given the hardest jobs and more than ninety died during the summer. Release for these Jews was often possible only if they could convince the SS that they would emigrate immediately.
3 Simo Muir and Hana Worthen (eds.), Finland’s Holocaust: Silences of History, Palgrave Macmillan, 2013. Also Elina Suominen’s work, Kuoleman laiva s/s Hohenhörn (Death Ship S/S Hohenhörn), WSOY, 1979, and Luovutetut: Suomen ihmisluovutukset Gestapolle (The Extradited: Finland’s Extraditions to the Gestapo), WSOY, 2003, the latter title written under her married name Elina Sana.
“German prisoners left the camp to go to the village unescorted. Certain SS men chatted with the Polish prisoners. Everything seemed strange in this Kommando—so different from the Buchenwald camp. Rumors spread. The former prisoners from Wieda came back from Cologne where they had taken part in the cleanup work in the bombed-out city. In the ruins, they had discovered the riches which the SS had expropriated for themselves. An agreement had been concluded: war booty for the wardens, lives spared until the end of the fighting for the prisoners.” On Sunday afternoons, villagers who were out walking came to see the prisoners behind their fence. The Russians would dance to the sound of the harmonica of a prisoner named Ivan, and the villagers would toss them cigarettes. In June 1963 a woman from Wieda, Emilie Denecke, gave Manfred Bornemann14 the following—and perhaps somewhat embellished—account:
Another important issue to consider, when writing about the Holocaust, is the role of eyewitness testimony. I have benefited from meeting hundreds of people who experienced this history personally and – not surprisingly, you might think – I believe that their testimony is of enormous value. Indeed, there is an almost existential point to be made about the advantage of meeting people and questioning them about their experiences. It is that while you talk to these people the history still lives.
Eicke also employed a number of carefully chosen inmates – known as Kapos – in a supervisory role at the camp. The idea of employing selected prisoners to oversee other inmates was not new – prisoners had been appointed ‘trusties’ in ordinary jails and even concentration camps before – but Eicke embraced the idea as if it was his own. There were many advantages for the SS in such a system. Not only could the supervision of prisoners now extend to times when SS guards were not present, but the potential arbitrariness of the treatment meted out by the Kapos to their fellow inmates added a note of uncertainty and tension that would intimidate the prisoners still further. As for the Kapos, their lives in the camp were altered in a double-edged way by their promotion to the status of overseers. While they could exercise power over those in their charge, they still remained vulnerable. As Himmler said, speaking during the war, ‘His [the Kapo’s] job is to see that the work gets done … thus he has to push his men. As soon as we are no longer satisfied with him, he is no longer a Kapo and returns to the other inmates. He knows that they will beat him to death his first night back.’65
THE “TRANSPORT” TRADITION IN THE CONCENTRATION CAMP WORLD. The German word Transport, which is the same in English, was one of the most common words in the concentration camp vocabulary as well as one of the most dreaded. It was never good to “leave in a transport,” as the unknown would no doubt be worse than the known. A look at the various circumstances in which the word was used will make this attitude understandable.
There were other colors of triangles as well. Pink triangles designated homosexuals, condemned for offense to the German race. For this reason, only Germans—or those considered to be German—were concerned. During the war an Alsatian from Mulhouse was lumped into this category. Purple triangles were reserved for Bibelforscher—that is, “fundamentalists” or Jehovah’s Witnesses. Also in the camps were those who had been condemned by military tribunals: French SS members were thus interned in Dachau and Stutthof.
Flight and Rescue, a publication of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, D.C., 2001
They arrived at Auschwitz main camp and marched under the entrance gate, inscribed ‘Arbeit macht frei’. They turned right, past the red-brick buildings where the inmates lived, until they reached the walled courtyard between Blocks 10 and 11. Here they were joined by more than a hundred prisoners who had been taken up from the cells in Block 11. Shortly afterwards, says Tadeusz, ‘The Gestapo commander, a Doctor of Law from Katowice, with two officers in tow arrived and the administration of justice began. Each one of us was called to report individually. We had to climb a few stairs leading from the courtyard to the block and then wait in a corridor. When my turn came I went into the room and was asked to provide my personal details. All the charges against me were read out.’ He was then told to join one of three groups of prisoners. There was no ‘trial’, no chance for him to defend himself; the ‘court’ merely announced which group each individual prisoner should join. ‘They [the members of the court] were taking lunch breaks and dinner breaks and so it all lasted till evening.’ Once the selection of all the prisoners was over, the first of the three groups was sent immediately to Birkenau and gassed. Among this group was a schoolteacher who had shared his cell at Mysłowice prison. ‘Before they left he said to me,’ says Tadeusz, ‘ “If you survive, tell Poland how we died.” ’15 The second group of prisoners was sent to the gas chambers of Birkenau two days later. Only the small number of prisoners in Tadeusz’s third group were admitted to the camp.
A COMPARISON. In the summer of 1944 the Buchenwald and Dora camps appear to have operated in roughly the same way. The newly completed Dora camp was organized along the lines of Buchenwald. At Dora, just as at Buchenwald, the Reds held positions of authority in the internal camp administration, and the most important ones were experienced communist activists.
Birin gave the names of three priests who left Dora: the Abbot Bourgeois, Father Renard, a Trappist and homonym of Jean-Paul, and Abbot Amyot d’Inville. Louis Coutaud55 recounts that Abbot Bourgeois was taken in a transport to Bergen-Belsen and Abbot Amyot was transferred to Wieda. He was brought back to Senlis in 1945, where he died shortly afterward. In the end Abbot Renard was the only one able to continue his priestly vocation in the camp. François Heumann56 recalls that his Firnrohr Kommando companion, the seminarian François Schwertz, took communion with hosts he provided. It would seem that the celebration of Mass under the conditions prevailing at Dora took on greater importance than at Buchenwald.
17 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 162.
After describing the welcome at the Lutétia, Butet27 recounts the rest of the 1st of May: “After lunch, at about 2 p.m., city buses came to take us to the Champs-Elysées, where we were met by Bollaert, Dejussieu and Debeaumarché who had put on their striped clothes. They headed up a procession in which, no doubt from concentration camp reflex, we lined up by five, and walked up the avenue to the Etoile.
ROBERT ROULARD. “I was hospitalized in the Revier at Dora, in the tuberculosis Block, for the first half of February. This was the Block closest to the building with the crematorium oven. In this way, I saw the crematorium oven in action as well as the pyre that had been set up just beside it, a layer of wood logs, a layer of corpses. At night, the pyre under our windows lit up the room of our barracks. We were sometimes present for the turning over of the corpses with the help of long forks—which at night was Dantesque—probably done to stoke the combustion of the corpses. Personally, I think that the decision to set up the pyres was taken because of the Gross Rosen camp evacuation transport arriving at Dora. The crematorium could not alone suffice before such an influx of corpses.” Henri Barbier’s20 account confirms that of Robert Roulard.21
In these convivial surroundings, among many of his comrades who had also taken part in the Putsch, Hitler composed a book – Mein Kampf (My Struggle). Though written in a crude and hyperbolic style, Mein Kampf nonetheless offers valuable insights into Hitler’s worldview. The book was not a blueprint for the Holocaust – Hitler did not outline a plan to exterminate the Jews – but he did lay bare the nature of his own anti-Semitism. He explained, in greater detail than in any of his previous utterances, just why he hated the Jews. It was a hatred that reads today as the product of a mind so deeply mired in prejudice as to be almost unhinged.
The situation was different north of Berlin, in the northern part of Brandenburg and Mecklenburg. The SS conducted the evacuation of two large camps, Sachsenhausen and Ravensbrück, and the columns ended up together in the Schwerin region not far from the Wöbbelin camp in early May 1945.
I believe many people in the thirties and early forties didn’t want to open their eyes to the impending Holocaust. They let all the fragments of information pass by like so much debris on a fast-flowing river. Don’t worry – the water’s still clean enough. When they heard rumours, they would turn away or focus on something more agreeable. Even the ones who were close to the centre of power averted their eyes and plugged their ears. But Erni did just the opposite, keeping the windows of her conscience wide open. She and her sisters and friends knew perfectly well what was going on and what might lie ahead.
Prisoners were not only tracked by their files but also by their personal “belongings,” as Guido Schreve, a Dutchman arrested in France under the false French identity of André Bérard,12 was to observe. After several weeks at the Lagerkommando, he was assigned as a bureaucrat to the Häftlingsklei-dungskammer, the storehouse where the personal “belongings” of camp prisoners were kept in order. The block was especially fitted out with a big hall and offices. There was a data sheet for each prisoner with an inventory of his stored belongings; clothes were kept separately from valuables. In an envelope bearing his identity number, Bérard found his wallet, his watch, his rings, and a pen, which had been taken away from him when he was imprisoned at Fresnes. The objects had followed him to Buchenwald. When the Dora camp became independent from Buchenwald, the belongings of the prisoners who were transferred to Dora went along with them.
87. Bailly, Un lycéen à Buchenwald, pp. 178–79.
Trude, whose husband had been murdered in a different concentration camp, remained in London for twenty years, was remarried to a distant cousin from Prague, and moved to Cologne. Erni then picked up the thread of their friendship, visiting four or five times a year. Ille and Bert, who didn’t live far from Cologne, would also come by to relive the old days in Prague.
29 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 97.
For the first six months of Dora’s existence, between the arrival of the first prisoners from Buchenwald in late August 1943 and early March 1944, construction work on the camp itself was carried out only very partially and intermittently. The original camp, made up of marabou tents (some documents say they were “Finnish,” but in any case they were round), grouped together near the southern exit of tunnel B at Kohnstein, was replaced by various isolated barracks located in the valley farther to the west that had been chosen as the final site, on land bought by the WIFO. Here, administrative departments and general departments such as the kitchen were housed, whereas several blocks were set aside to house the Prominente, Italian prisoners of war, and the sick from the Revier and the Schonung. Then a few blocks were assigned to prisoners in the Kommandos working outside the tunnel. From March to June 1944, however, a genuine camp was built in an orderly fashion, and it soon took on its more or less definitive form. The thousands of prisoners that filled the tunnel dormitories were moved to the camp in April and May. Many of them were to live there until the evacuation of April 1945.
Mittelbau-Dora has largely been a “forgotten camp,” indeed “one of the least known and researched Nazi concentration camps,” as Joachim Neander notes in his dissertation on the history of Mittelbau-Dora.15 This was also true of earlier West German publications.16 Still, Mittelbau-Dora is one of the few camps that were presented in the 1970 Studien zur Geschichte der Konzentrationlager,17 In 1967 an integral study of the camp, not by an historian but by former Dora prisoner and jurist Wincenty Hein, had appeared in Poland.18 In the German Democratic Republic (on whose territory the “Mahn und Gedenkstätte” existed since 1963) a student research group, guided by Walter Bartel,19 produced several detailed and scientific studies. They took the form of diploma theses or dissertations and were submitted to the East Berlin Humboldt University. Some of them were and still are difficult to find.20 As a result, by the late 1960s the “little” Mittelbau-Dora camp was better researched than the major camps—Buchenwald, Sachsenhausen, and Ravensbrück—located in East Germany.
It is impossible to say how many prisoners were involved in the evacuation of Sachsenhausen. In his book published in 1989, Bezaut,7 who studied all the literature on the subject, wrote: “The headcount of those on the march varies from 30,000 to 42,000; the headcount of the survivors, between 18,000 and 28,000. That means there must have been between 12,000 and 15,000 poor wretches who were struck down by SS bullets or who died of hunger or exhaustion along the way, and many in the Below woods.” In this mass of prisoners, there was nothing unusual about the fate of the prisoners from Ellrich and Rossla. At the time of the evacuation, prisoners who were too ill to move were left behind.
Mauthausen. The concentration camp for political prisoners.
Another initiative took place in Strasbourg on December 15–16, 1992, in the presence of the presidents of the groups in the European Parliament. A common resolution drafted by the groups was adopted almost unanimously on February 10, 1993, by the Parliament. In particular, the resolution “asks member states, the Council and the Commission to provide support, including financial support, for any initiatives seeking to conserve the meaning of the Nazi concentration camps in their specificity and to place them under European and international protection.”
Farther south, one of the railway evacuation convoys from Buchenwald, which had set out on April 10, was forced to stop on the 11th in Jena with its locomotive out of order. A column was formed and stragglers were shot. It reached Gera on April 12. After violent fighting that caused numerous losses in the column, it was liberated on the 13th.
THE EVACUATION OF GROSS ROSEN. Gross Rosen was set up in May 1941 on the edge of the Lower Silesian mountains to the west of Breslau. The small neighboring town is now called Rogosnica in Polish. Like Mauthausen and Flossenbürg, Gross Rosen was established in connection with the exploitation—for the SS—of a large quarry. It was considered a particularly inhospitable camp, even by the “45,000”s who came from Auschwitz17 like Roger Abada. The core of the population was made up of Poles, quite unwelcoming to the Western prisoners.
There is no confusion, however, in the minds of Buchenwald survivors speaking out today. The young Charles Lavallard, having laid down his weapon, thus became a nurse in the former Revier of the SS, to help save the sick, often moribund, whom the stretcher-bearers, particularly the American soldiers, were evacuating from the small camp.4 Jorge Semprun, who stated that “to live in the small camp, during the last winter of the war, was a nightmare; and to survive it was a miracle,”5 does not know if a French doctor—a prisoner—actually managed to save the Jewish man from Budapest, whom he and his friend Albert had heard singing the Kaddish—the prayer of the dead—in a block of the small camp, lying among the corpses.6
Buchenwald was above all one of the large classical camps of the essentially German period of the concentration camp system, where a great many communist activists were interned. It was at Buchenwald, though not in the camp itself, that on August 18, 1944, the SS executed Ernst Thälmann, the great leader of the German Communist Party before 1933. The conditions of the liberation of the camp on April 11, 1945, were utterly exceptional. Nowhere else did the liberators find a camp of such magnitude (it still held more than twenty thousand people) still under the effective control of an international leadership of prisoners. At Buchenwald, however, there are no great heroes who stand out on the individual level. The period of suspicion left its mark.
22 The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum gives a figure of 72,000 Jews in Greece at the time of the occupation and ‘nearly 60,000’ who died in the Holocaust: https://www.ushmm.org/wlc/en/article.php?ModuleId=10005778. Steven B. Bowman, The Agony of Greek Jews, 1940–1945, Stanford University Press, 2009, p. 77, states that nearly 90 per cent of Greek Jewry perished.
In early June 1944, the train carrying Freda, her family and nearly a thousand other Jews from France passed under the red-brick guardhouse of Birkenau and down a railway line directly into the camp. As the doors of the freight wagon opened and they emerged into the light, Freda thought she had arrived in ‘Hell. The smell! The smell was awful!’1 But Freda was still unaware of the true purpose of Birkenau. The place was huge and teeming with prisoners. Perhaps the new arrivals would all be put to work?
THE EICKE-STYLE CAMP. In terms of its aims and operation, the camp at Buchenwald in mid-1943 was still very close to the concentration camp model worked out to the last detail by Theodor Eicke, first commander of Dachau, then general-inspector of the camps until 1939. At the head of each camp was a Kommandant (along with his Kommandantur), who was both the head of an SS garrison, of the Totenkopf unit, and of the prisoners’ camp, the Konzentrationslager. This camp fell under the authority of one of the Kommandant’s assistants, the Lagerführer, or camp leader. SS members fell into one of two categories: the first was made up of those who were involved, in one way or another, in the camp or at the work sites; the second was comprised of Posten, guards posted in the watchtowers or patrolling with dogs around the camp perimeters.
OTTO FÖRSCHNER. Commandant of Dora-Mittelbau from August 1943 until the end of January 1945. Born 1902. Transferred from the Reichswehr to the Waffen-SS in 1934. Served at the front for the first two years of the war, then transferred to Buchenwald. Transferred (apparently as a punishment) to command the Mittelbau camp in September 1943. Also named business manager of the Mittelwerk limited company in October 1943. Transferred to Kaufering, a subcamp of Dachau, February 1945. In December 1945 the Americans sentenced him to death for his role in Kaufering. Executed May 28, 1946.
On the contrary, to the very end the SS observed the rule that no surviving concentration camp prisoners were to fall into the hands of the Allied troops. Fortunately, as will be explained in detail, the rule could not be applied everywhere nor right up to the end. The evacuation of Bergen-Belsen, for example, where a typhus epidemic had broken out, proved to be impossible. Columns of prisoners on foot met up with the Allied advance, as in the region south of Magdeburg or around Parchim. Nevertheless, all the political, racial, and other prisoners lived under the threat of death to the very end.
46 Browning, Genocide, p. 36, Palfinger’s report of 7 November 1940.
One last remark regarding the testimonies. When writing about a concentration camp, one comes up against the objection that the author is in some respects speaking from the point of view of the survivors. This was already the case for the soldiers of the First World War. I am not sure in either case that the remark is well-founded, insofar as the extreme cases are recognized for their full importance—which is large indeed—and this I have endeavored to do. And it is true that all the situations were not permanently extreme. But no one was sheltered from a twist of fate.
The point of difference in comparison to the Western countries was the reception of the former prisoners of the camps when they were repatriated to the Soviet Union. There was then, as is now known, no indulgence whatsoever with regard to the prisoners of war, generally accused of not having fought to the finish. There was still less indulgence for the Ostarbeiter—the men and women who had come to work in Germany, often in the arms factories, whether voluntarily or not. As the Soviets in the concentration camps were for the most part prisoners of war or Ostarbeiter who had turned into prisoners for real or alleged infractions, they were not entitled, generally speaking, to a warm welcome.
All this would be past history except that the very same business-as-usual is behind our trying to forget two things: that twentieth century men like us sent millions into the gas chambers, and that millions of men like us walked to their death without resistance. In Buchenwald, I talked to hundreds of German Jewish prisoners who were brought there in the fall of 1938. I asked them why they had not left Germany because of the utterly degrading and discriminating conditions they were subjected to. Their answer was: How could we leave? It would have meant giving up our homes, our places of business. Their earthly possessions had so taken possession of them that they could not move; instead of using them, they were run by them. As a matter of fact the discriminatory laws against the Jews were meant to force them to leave Germany, leaving most of their possessions behind. For a long time the intention of the Nazis was to force undesirable minorities, such as the Jews, into emigration. Only when this did not work was the extermination policy instituted, following also the inner logic of the Nazi racial ideology. But one wonders whether the notion that millions of Jews (and later foreign nationals) would submit to their extermination did not also result from seeing what degradation they were willing to accept without fighting back. The persecution of the Jews was aggravated, slow step by slow step, when no violent fighting back occurred. It may have been Jewish acceptance, without retaliatory fight, of ever harsher discrimination and degradation that first gave the SS the idea that they could be gotten to the point where they would walk to the gas chambers on their own. Most Jews in Poland who did not believe in business-as-usual survived the Second World War. As the Germans approached, they left everything behind and fled to Russia, much as many of them distrusted the Soviet system. But there, while perhaps citizens of a second order, they were at least accepted as human beings. Those who stayed on to continue business-as-usual moved toward their own destruction and perished. Thus in the deepest sense the walk to the gas chamber was only the last consequence of a philosophy of business-as-usual. True, the same suicidal behavior has another meaning. It means that man can be pushed so far and no further; that beyond a certain point he chooses death to an inhuman existence. But the initial step toward this terrible choice was the inertia that preceded it.
The war also led to an expansion in the overall concentration camp system, as the Nazis opened new camps in occupied territory. On 2 September 1939, the day after the Germans had invaded Poland, a concentration camp was established at the town of Sztutowo (Stutthof to the Germans) near Danzig. But it wasn’t until the spring of 1940 that preparations were made to open on Polish soil what would become the most infamous camp within the whole Nazi system – Auschwitz.
Reinhard Heydrich wrote to state secretaries, selected SS officers and other relevant functionaries and asked them to attend a conference at 56–58 Am Grossen Wannsee outside Berlin. He enclosed with his invitation a copy of Göring’s 31 July 1941 letter authorizing him to organize a Final Solution to the ‘Jewish question’. So none of the fifteen people who attended could have been in any doubt about the purpose of the gathering or Heydrich’s right to convene it. The SS officers who were invited ranged from the very senior – SS Gruppenführer (Major General) Heinrich Müller, head of the Gestapo, SS Gruppenführer (Major General) Otto Hofmann, head of the SS Race and Settlement Office, and Heydrich, who was an SS Obergruppenführer (Lieutenant General) as well as head of the Reich Security Main Office – to the relatively junior – SS Obersturmbannführer (Lieutenant Colonel) Adolf Eichmann, the SD’s so-called Jewish ‘expert’, and SS Sturmbannführer (Major) Dr Rudolf Lange. The latter was asked because of his direct, personal experience of murdering Jews in Latvia with Einsatzgruppe A. Other attendees included Martin Luther, under-secretary at the Foreign Ministry, Dr Roland Freisler of the Reich Ministry of Justice, and Hans Frank’s own state secretary from the General Government, Dr Josef Bühler. The original date for the meeting was 9 December 1941, but this was later postponed to 20 January 1942.
There is good reason why the so successful play ends with Anne stating her belief in the good in all men. What is denied is the importance of accepting the gas chambers as real so that never again will they exist. If all men are basically good, if going on with intimate family living no matter what else is what is to be most admired, then indeed we can all go on with life as usual and forget about Auschwitz. Except that Anne Frank died because her parents could not get themselves to believe in Auschwitz. And her story found wide acclaim because for us too, it denies implicitly that Auschwitz ever existed. If all men are good, there can be no Auschwitz.
No one present knew that I had spent three years at the Boroslo Institute of Forensic Medicine, where I had had a chance to study every possible form of suicide under the supervision of Professor Strasseman. I realized that, as prisoner-doctor A 8450, I had better remember now all that Dr. Miklos Nyiszli had formerly known.
On 24 August 1941, Hitler decided to cancel the T4 action. This didn’t mean that all euthanasia killings ceased – individual hospitals continued to starve disabled patients to death and to kill them by fatal injections – but the systematic gassing in the special killing centres no longer took place as before. In turn, this meant that a number of individuals from the T4 programme who possessed expertise in mass murder, like Christian Wirth and Irmfried Eberl, were unemployed. They would shortly be asked to use their particular talents elsewhere.
Stülpnagel’s successor, his cousin Carl-Heinrich von Stülpnagel, managed to obtain agreement to try out this policy of reprisal by mass expulsion. Hence the first deportation in March 1942, in response to resistance attacks, of 1,112 Jews from Compiègne to Auschwitz. It didn’t matter to the Germans that none of these 1,112 Jews had been found guilty of acts of murderous resistance. Because of the Nazi belief in the iron link between Communism and Judaism, it was sufficient merely that they were Jews.
Lemière (Dr. Maurice), Retour de Buchenwald (Condé-sur-Noireau: Éd. Charles Corlet, 1980).
German troops invaded Poland on Friday 1 September 1939 and initiated a rule of terror that would see Poland become the epicentre of the Holocaust. The Germans would build all of their most infamous extermination camps on Polish soil, and Poland would suffer a greater proportionate loss of population than any other single country in the war. Up to 6 million people living in Poland – at least half of them Jews – lost their lives. The vast majority of these people did not die in battle, but as a result of a deliberate policy of starvation, deportation and murder.
More than that – he was hailed as a hero, so that everyone could forget as fast as possible that Japan had been allied with Nazi Germany and never made the slightest protest against the extermination of the Jews. The Japanese threw themselves into a strange sort of Vergangenheitsbewältigung, to borrow the German term for efforts to cope with the national legacy of the Holocaust. They embraced the Sugihara exception and turned their backs on the country’s wartime record. On the rare occasions when the subject did come up, it tended to derail the conversation – in essence, it was still taboo. Sugihara, in contrast, was idolised. A senior Dutch diplomat I spoke to in Tokyo called it ‘a kind of false romanticism without any awareness of who was really responsible for what’ – and hastened to add that this was ‘a personal opinion’. ‘We’ – Western countries, including the United States and Canada – ‘never want to offend the Japanese, of course.’
In Langenstein, halfway between the cities of Halberstadt and Blankenburg, there was a large concentration camp in 1944–45. It was located less than six miles from the Blankenburg-Oesig camp. However, there was no connection between the two camps or between their corresponding work sites. The Langenstein work site was the Sonderstab Kammler’s B 2 work site. Until October 1944 the two camps were Buchenwald Kommandos. At that time Blankenburg was linked to Dora and Langenstein still depended on Buchenwald. In April 1945 the evacuations took place under very different circumstances. The Langenstein camp, unknown for a long time, was studied in exemplary fashion by Paul Le Goupil, who in 1996 put together a “Mémorial des Français” (“Memorial to the French”)17 who had passed through—of which he was one. The document includes a history of the camp from which the principal facts can be drawn. The camp was also known by the name of Zwieberge. Indeed it was set up at the foot of a clay hill that bears the name because of its two crowning summits.
It was in March 1994 on these bases that the new organizational setup was established, concretized by the creation of a “foundation” known as the Stiftung Gedenkstätte Buchenwald und Mittelbau-Dora. Its purpose was defined as follows: “The purpose of the Foundation is to preserve the memorials as places of mourning, where the memory of the crimes committed there are kept, to fit out these memorials on a scientific base and to make them accessible to the public in a suitable form, as well as promoting the study and transmission of the attendant historical processes. The Buchenwald memorial shall give priority to the study of the history of the concentration camp. The history of the Soviet internment camp shall be dealt with in scholarly publications and a museographical presentation in a suitable form. In the Mittelbau-Dora memorial, account will be taken of the particular problem of the exploitation of the prisoners in manufacturing weapons of extermination. Finally, the history and instrumentalization of the memorials during the time of the German Democratic Republic will be exhibited.”
Around the same time Hitler was talking with the Polish ambassador about sending the Jews to the ‘colonies’, the British were trying to reach a diplomatic agreement with him about the fate of Czechoslovakia. Part of the problem was that the British government appeared to believe Hitler’s claim that he did not want war and that his chief concern was genuinely with the German-speaking minority in Czechoslovakia. In an attempt to solve the dispute, the British Prime Minister, Neville Chamberlain, agreed at a conference in Munich at the end of September 1938 that German troops could occupy the Sudetenland, the predominantly German-speaking region of Czechoslovakia. The Czechs, infamously, had no say in the matter. By thus appeasing Hitler, the British hoped to prevent war.
Four convoys brought deportees from Belgium between May 8 and August 11, 1944.11 Some remained at Buchenwald, at least for a while. The others, who were sent to Mittelraum camps,12 were usually not used in the Dora Tunnel on assembling V2s or V1s. They quickly joined the new underground work sites under Kammler, which will be discussed in part 4. Many of them died. According to later studies, “The mortality rate was higher than average: taking into account those that perished during the evacuations or shortly after their liberation, there were about 1,400 deaths, which corresponded to nearly 55% of the Belgians at Dora-Mittelbau.” The fact of remaining or not remaining at Buchenwald was therefore of great importance, and the conditions governing the choice are still being hotly debated fifty years later.13
The Allied position regarding the Jews remained simple – the only sure way to stop their extermination was to defeat the Nazis. In the summer of 1944 that strategy seemed to enjoy some success when the Red Army captured Majdanek camp in late July. Majdanek was a revelation to the world. Much of the extermination machinery had not been destroyed by the retreating Germans, and the remaining gas chambers and crematorium were incontrovertible proof of the Nazis’ murderous activities. ‘What I am now about to relate is too enormous and too gruesome to be fully conceived,’ wrote Konstantin Simonov, a Soviet war correspondent, after examining the camp. Simonov described how the gas chambers functioned, with ‘specially trained operators wearing gas masks’ who ‘poured the “cyclone [sic]” out of the cylindrical tins into the chamber’. He was also appalled by the immense number of shoes he saw, taken from those who had been murdered. ‘They spill over out of the hut through the windows and the doors. In one spot the weight of them pushed out part of the wall, which fell outwards together with piles of shoes … it is hard to imagine anything more gruesome than this sight.’8
The refugees, packed together in sweltering hotel rooms, guesthouses, or slums, drifted from one consul to the next in desperation, but to no avail. Then one day, they heard a snatch of a rumour: ‘a Curaçao visa, the Dutch consul will give them out for free if he has to …’ This is the start of a unique episode in Dutch consular history, of which even the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was unaware until recently. The truth did not surface until earlier this year, when a Jewish weekly in America published a story about ‘the Angel of Curaçao’, the unknown consul who saved so many Jews from the gas chambers.
It seems, indeed, that the Buchenwald commander’s visit of inspection was needed to get things adjusted. According to Kammler’s instructions, absolute priority was given to the setting up of the tunnel factory and its access points.59 Everything concerning the camp was deferred. The outdoor roll calls disappeared. Sunday became an ordinary day. A general roll call took place later, in February, in the snow.
ONE MORNING DR. MENGELE SENT FOR me to report immediately to the F Camp commander. I was happy enough to go, for it would give me a chance to get away from the depressing atmosphere of the crematoriums for a few hours. I knew that the walk would do me good too, for I had little opportunity to exercise. And after the smell of the dissecting room and crematoriums I looked forward to getting a bit of fresh air. Besides, this visit would give me a chance to converse with my F Camp colleagues, who had welcomed me so warmly when I had first arrived in the KZ. I prepared for the trip by filling my pockets with precious medicines and several packages of cigarettes. I did not want to return empty-handed to my former “home,” i.e., to hospital-barracks 12.
Revealingly, two years later as he wrote Mein Kampf, Hitler did not say he was a Christian. Instead he made the ambiguous statement that he was acting in accordance with the ‘Almighty Creator’ and fighting for the ‘work of the Lord’. The Christians who read this would have assumed that ‘the Lord’ in question was Jesus, but Hitler’s words could also mean that he believed in a non-Christian creator God who left human beings to work out their own problems on earth, and that there was no afterlife except the life of the nation. His subsequent statements about Christianity make this interpretation persuasive. For instance, he later criticized the ‘meekness and flabbiness’ of Christianity.18 In 1941 Goebbels wrote that Hitler ‘hates Christianity, because it has crippled all that is noble in humanity’.19 There is no evidence that Hitler genuinely believed in Jesus’ divinity or resurrection or any of the other key tenets of the Christian faith. Instead, he was careful to point out that ‘for the space of many millenniums, a uniform concept of God did not exist.’20
Pierre Bleton,23 who also arrived in March from Neuenbremme and Buchenwald, remained there until the beginning of September. He worked digging underground galleries. Then as an NN he was targeted for regrouping in Neuengamme. Later, along with other NN, he would go to Gross Rosen and Dora.
The Danish experience of the Holocaust is singular. This was the only country under Nazi domination where large numbers of Jews – around 95 per cent – were saved by their fellow countrymen. There is no simple explanation for why this happened in Denmark and nowhere else – a combination of factors all came together at this moment. In the first place, there was a historical culture of Danes sticking together against their powerful neighbour, Germany. There was also a profound sense of the importance of individual human rights. ‘It is a question of what I call Danish fairness and justice,’ says Rudy Bier, a Jewish teenager who was saved by his fellow Danes in the autumn of 1943. ‘I think we want to protect each other and we do not easily give in or up on things.’19 The proximity of a neutral country also played a part. Sweden was near by and offered an immediate place of refuge – especially after the Swedes had broadcast on radio on 2 October 1943 that they would welcome any Danish Jews who could make the crossing.
16 Danuta Czech, Auschwitz Chronicle 1939–1945: From the Archives of the Auschwitz Memorial and the German Federal Archives, I. B. Tauris, 1990, p. 591.
It was no accident that foreign Jews were especially vulnerable under the new legislation. Out of a total of approximately 330,000 Jews in France in December 1940, about 135,000 were not French citizens, but had sought sanctuary in France from other countries. These ‘aliens’, as the Statutes described them, were particularly hated by French anti-Semites, and would later suffer disproportionately compared to French Jews. While around 10 per cent of French Jews would lose their lives in the Holocaust, more than 40 per cent of foreign Jews in France would die at the hands of the Nazis.31
Der Ewige Jude was by far the most nauseating piece of anti-Semitic film propaganda produced by the Nazis, and there is evidence that Hitler himself had a hand in its construction. Archival evidence, plus testimony from its director, Fritz Hippler,7 strongly suggests that Hitler’s contribution was to make the film more extreme. Fritz Hippler remembers how, via Der Ewige Jude, ‘Hitler wanted to bring the “evidence” so to speak with this film that the Jews are a parasitic race … who had to be separated from the rest of men.’8 The comparison of Jews with rats was something that Hitler would have found especially powerful, since he had a special loathing of these particular animals. ‘I learnt to hate rats when I was at the front,’ he said during the war. ‘A wounded man forsaken between the lines knew he’d be eaten alive by these disgusting beasts.’9
14. Paul Le Goupil, Mémorial des Français déportés au camp de Langenstein-Zwieberge, Kommando de Buchenwald, 1996.
In the months before this consolidation of power, Hitler had demonstrated that he did not want to increase the role of the concentration camps within the Nazi state. Quite the reverse. He sought to show the world that the initial phase of the revolution in which ‘scores were settled’ was now over. In the spring of 1934 he had ordered the release of several thousand prisoners in an action that Himmler later privately called ‘one of the worst political mistakes the National Socialist State could have made’.2 By the summer of 1935 fewer than 4,000 people were imprisoned within the concentration camp system – while more than twenty-five times as many were held in conventional prisons.
We left, filled with the feverish sensation of liberation. Direction: The Birkenau KZ, two kilometers from the crematoriums. Immense flames glowed along the horizon there. It was probably the KZ burning.
As soon as Dr. Mengele and Dr. Thilo left the crematorium, I followed them and headed directly for D Camp, where the SS group which supervised the incorporation of foreign prisoners into forced labor battalions was installed. In this camp the prisoners necessary for that program of slave labor in force throughout all Germany were portioned out. The head was an Oberschaarführer. I found him alone in his room. I introduced myself and showed him Dr. Mengele’s pass.
Wexler provides a savory description of various aspects of his term as mayor and concludes: “On 10 or 11 May, the Americans sent us trucks. We were told to assemble in front of the church—deportees, prisoners of war, STO workers. A hundred of us got into the trucks. Some of the German women were weeping!” Wexler was on the same repatriation train as Rogerie. He went to the Lutétia Hotel, whereas Rogerie went by himself from Jeumont to Angoulême. A month elapsed between the liberation and the return of Rogerie and Wexler, who were both in relatively good physical condition. This sort of decompression period was no doubt important from a psychological standpoint. We might call this period a “truce,” which is the term used by Primo Levi.9 In a book entitled La Tregua, he chose the word to describe the events that occurred between his departure from Auschwitz and his return to Turin. There was also a period of truce for some prisoners in Mecklenburg in May 1945, which will be described at the end of the next chapter.
First published in France in 1998 by Editions La Découverte as Histoire du camp de Dora. Published in Germany in 2000 by zu Klampen Verlag as Zwangsarbeit im Raketentunnel. First American edition published 2003 by Ivan R. Dee in association with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. The assertions, arguments, and conclusions contained herein are those of the author or other contributors. They do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council or of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
I broke ranks and presented myself. Dr. Mengele questioned me at length, asking me where I had studied, the names of my pathology professors, how I had acquired a knowledge of forensic medicine, how long I had practiced, etc. Apparently my answers were satisfactory, for he immediately separated me from the others and ordered my colleagues to return to their places. For the moment they were spared. Because I must now state a truth of which I then was ignorant, namely, that the left-hand group, and those who went off in cars, passed a few moments later through the doors of the crematorium. From which no one ever returned.
My days were spent in idleness, my nights were sleepless. I was terribly depressed; all desire had left me. Since my family’s departure, I had been filled with loneliness and haunted by my own inactivity. For the past several days silence and boredom had weighed heavily on Auschwitz. A bad sign—and my intuition was just about infallible—merely the herald of more bloody deeds to come. The twelfth Sonderkommando had almost lived out its four months. The sands of our allotted time were fast running out. We had only a few days left—at most a week or two—to live.
34 Cesarani, Final Solution, p. 284. Richard Evans, The Third Reich at War, Allen Lane, 2008, pp. 93–101.
42 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, p. 568.
There was another important part of Hitler’s leadership technique that Goebbels also encountered around this time. Hitler rarely defined an individual’s exact responsibilities within the party, and so conflict between ambitious Nazis was inevitable. For example, after Goebbels had been appointed head of Nazi propaganda he found that other people still exercised control over aspects of radio, film and the training of speakers. He had to scheme and fight to gather as many of these strands to himself as he could. All this created immense dynamism within the party, especially since Hitler rarely intervened in disputes about areas of responsibility between his subordinates. As we shall see, this style of leadership would have considerable impact on the way the Holocaust developed.
Once it had crossed the Elbe it went toward the Sachsenhausen camp north of Berlin, taking a detour via Ludwigslust and Wittenberge. On April 13 at 5 P.M. the convoy was close to the radio station in Nauen, sixteen miles from Spandau. At the time the Nauen wireless station was well known in Europe. At that point the convoy was bombed, as Besançon reported: “Bombing of our convoy by heavy machine guns and light bombs from English Mosquitoes. The SS took cover on the sides of the railway track, and, their guns against their cheeks, forbid us to take cover under the freight cars, most of which were open. [ . . . ] After the bombing, an SS requisitioned me to review the freight cars and take official note of the damage. I was to present the wounded and the dying to him. He finished off those who were the worst hit with his revolver. All the dead were loaded into a freight car.”
Since my arrival in the crematorium I had been the first one to receive this smuggled copy. I read it in a safe hiding place, then related the day’s events to one of the prisoner-clerks, who in turn passed on the news to his companions. Within a few minutes everyone had heard the latest news.
A group of 500 prisoners was sent from Sachsenhausen to Karlshagen on October 17, 1944. Among them were 150 Frenchmen, 4 of whom have written up eyewitness accounts. Three of them had arrived directly from France only a short time earlier: Jean Duale,79 Pierre Pinault,80 and Pierre Pujol.81 The other, Jean Fournier,82 was in the “Loos train” (a prison near Lille). Sent from Tourcoing on August 31, just before the Allies arrived, he made a detour by Utrecht and Groningen before finding himself in Cologne, then Magdeburg, and finally arriving in Sachsenhausen. The newcomers were all employed in outside Kommandos and suffered considerably from the cold, especially due to the wind. The mortality rate was high.
Dr Karl Brandt, who personally witnessed the gassing at Brandenburg, did not mention any of these advantages for the Nazis when talking about the decision to gas patients at his trial after the war. Instead, he claimed that he had talked to Hitler about the choice between killing by injection and by gas and Hitler had asked, ‘Which is the most humane way?’47 For Brandt the answer was ‘clear’ – gassing. A number of other Nazis who were aware of this method of murder later claimed that they thought the same. They fantasized that the killers were being kinder to their victims by sparing them the torment of anticipating their own deaths, and that by deceiving them until the moment that gas came from the pipes above them, they were demonstrating an element of humanity. But the idea that death in a gas chamber was necessarily less horrific than death by any other method was a lie, as subsequent testimony from those involved in the gassing at the extermination camps makes clear.48
Just as at Bełżec, the largest category of people working in the camp were the Jewish Sonderkommandos. Every major extermination camp utilized prisoners who were selected from the new arrivals and made to perform a variety of tasks related to the killing process – from the ‘Bahnhofskommando’ who took the Jews from the station up into the camp, to the most horrific jobs of all which were undertaken by the Sonderkommandos who were forced to empty the gas chambers of the bodies and bury them. Again, as at Bełżec, all of the Sonderkommandos were just a moment away from death themselves. Any of the Sonderkommandos who did not perform as the SS required were murdered and replaced by selected Jews from a new transport.
Not all the camps concerned were located in Germany. Mauthausen was in Austria and Struthof in France. With regard to the Federal Republic of Germany—which henceforth corresponds to reunified Germany as a whole—there is no common policy on the subject; however, in early March 1994 the Bundestag’s Foreign Affairs Commission organized a public hearing of experts on the “federal state’s participation” in these places of memory. Until such time as any decisions are made in this regard, the Länder remain responsible for the camps located on their territory. The camps are Dachau and Flossenbürg in Bavaria, Bergen-Belsen in Lower Saxony, Neuengamme in Hamburg, Sachsenhausen and Ravensbrück in Brandenburg, Buchenwald and Dora in Thuringia. But Saxony-Anhalt, for instance, also has commemorative monuments and necropolises on its territory, including Blankenburg, Langenstein, and Gardelegen.
17. A synagogue burns as a result of Kristallnacht. More than ninety Jews died as a consequence of the attacks on 9/10 November 1938, and around 30,000 Jews were subsequently sent to concentration camps.
This meant finding bureaucrats among the prisoners. At Buchenwald the bureaucracy in 1944 was entirely in the hands of German political prisoners and their friends from Czechoslovakia, Poland, the Netherlands, etc. At Dora the situation was more confusing: there were few German Reds and the Greens were often mediocre, which meant there were possibilities open to prisoners from other countries who had some knowledge of German. This was also the case for administrative positions in the tunnel.
Cultural attaché Ton van Zeeland put me in touch with Kitade, and the two of us met in Tokyo. He was a rich source of information about the Japanese side of the story. Using the Sugihara list, Akira Kitade investigated where in Japan the refugees had stayed and what ships they took to Los Angeles, Vancouver, and Shanghai. Kitade could produce documents supporting the claim that 3,080 men, women, and children had been saved by visas from Zwartendijk and Sugihara. He had the professional courtesy to send copies of all the evidence that he had collected. This showed me that even such an exceptionally conscientious journalist and researcher could make an occasional error: he traced only the father and one child in the Wejland family, not the mother or Marcel’s two sisters.
On January 31, he was taken in a truck heading for Dora. “The inside of the truck was loaded with crates of cadavers heading for the crematorium.”
Buchenwald in April 1945, the day he turned fifty; and in memory
49 Peter Longerich in Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2012, p. 362, gives a figure of 52,000 Jews in Belgium at the end of 1940.
I regretted having let myself go, having momentarily forgotten the discretion I usually displayed in his presence. I had dared criticize the one place, the one environment where my soft-brained superior really felt at home: the blazing glow of the pyres and the spiraling smoke of the crematorium stacks; the air heavy with the odor of burning bodies; the walls resounding with the screams of the damned and the metallic rattle of machine guns fired pointblank; it was to this that the demented doctor came for rest and relaxation after each selection, after each display of “fireworks.” This was where he spent all his free time; here, in this man-made hell, the fiendish physician of Auschwitz made me cut open the bodies of hundreds of freshly murdered people, whose flesh was also used for the cultivation of bacteria in an electric incubator. Obsessed with the belief that he had been chosen to discover the cause of multiple births, here, within these bloodstained walls, Dr. Mengele sat hunched for hours at a time over his microscopes.
Such was the situation when the commission of experts, designated by the Land of Thuringia to write a report on the future of Buchenwald and Dora, came to visit the tunnel on November 15, 1991. Though he had not been invited, Van Hoey joined them. On November 16 in a press conference the commission declared, in particular, that tunnels A and B had to be conserved and that some portion of them had to be integrated into the Gedenkstätte and opened to the public. It would appear that the law of January 6, 1993, regarding the protection of historical monuments in the Land of Thuringia, also aimed at sites of cultural interest, made it possible to register tunnels A and B along with their lateral galleries as classified monuments in order to ensure their protection.
Eventually the goal was to attain the requisite number of workers to satisfy the Mittelwerk company’s manpower needs and ensure the functioning of the neighboring camp. But first, it was above all necessary to have an indefinite mass of prisoners to carry out the task of transforming the factory and the camp. Because this transformation work led to numerous victims, whose corpses were transported to Buchenwald to be incinerated, they had to be replaced, and it was this kind of occurrence that gave Dora its justifiably detestable reputation. Further on, an attempt will be made, on the basis of available information, to draw up a statistical table of this period. But its essential features must first of all be described.
The same distinction was given to Edmond Debeaumarché, an important Resistance fighter in the French post office, who was also a “77,000,” Pierre Julitte, a “14,000” who arrived late at Dora after a long stay at Buchenwald, André Schock, who will be encountered later in connection with Harzungen, and, posthumously, André Boyer. The latter, a comrade of Brunschwig-Bordier, was killed during the bombing of Nordhausen under conditions that will be described in chapter 16.
Project B 12, alias Kaolin, had to do with digging out the Kohnstein to the west of the Dora Tunnel starting at Woffleben. It was a large-scale project in that the overall usable surface was to be some 1.73 million square feet, as opposed to 1.325 million for the Dora Tunnel. The blueprints show several tunnels, C, D, E, and F, running parallel to tunnels A and B and joined together by halls. The south end of the envisaged underground complex was to be situated (but without any way out) underneath the hill located to the north of the Dora camp, by the crematorium. It seems that the purpose of this complex was to house two aircraft factories.
13. Adolf Eichmann, the SD officer who would help organize the Nazis’ ‘Final Solution’ – in particular the killing of the Hungarian Jews.
In chapter 6 the close relationship between the concentration camp system and the factories working on the V2s was mentioned. Two further components should be added.
The message was drafted in time. It described in sufficient detail the horrors perpetrated at Auschwitz from the time of its founding until the present. The names of the camp’s torturers were included, as well as our estimate of the number of people exterminated, with a description of the methods and instruments utilized for extermination.
The Kommando’s work was not part of the Arbeitsstatistik agenda. It was performed outdoors and included various excavation and unloading tasks in the camp. One of them involved building pyres, whose importance will be discussed later on, which were needed to eliminate corpses upon the arrival of the evacuation transports from Auschwitz and Gross Rosen. Special tasks were often requested by block chiefs who knew the SK II Kapo and the Vorarbeiter, particularly the supplying of wood. Henner and Couëtdic thus became the suppliers of the whorehouse where they were fed a floury soup.
Many of these studies of the satellite camps grew out of the methodological discussion of Alltagsgeschichte. Surprisingly, they either ignored or limited their consideration of the relationship between the camps and their geographic environment. The same is true of recent monographs on specific camps or camp complexes.12 Moreover, the fact that a few years ago a large collective volume published by Ulrich Herbert and others on the history of the concentration camps, organized into seven sections but without a separate section on the social surroundings of the camps, points to a far-reaching neglect of the theme in research to date.13 Thus far the only studies that deal more fully with this subject, surprisingly, do not approach it from the perspective of the satellite camps but from that of the two main camps of Dachau and Buchenwald.14 But in these two studies the reciprocal effects between different types of camps and forms of un-free labor remain unexamined, though this kind of analysis is a precondition for understanding the complex Nazi camp system and awareness of it by the perpetrating society. And while both studies analyze in depth the economic and social relations between the camps and the two cities of Weimar and Dachau, they scarcely address the question of the motivational structure of the participating criminal associates, that is, the broad spectrum between passive witnessing and active participation.
13 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, p. 334.
50. Maurice Lemière, Retour de Buchenwald (Condé-sur-Noireau: Corlet, 1980), pp. 78–82.
64 Interview with Professor Sir Ian Kershaw conducted by Laurence Rees in 2009 for the educational website WW2History.com, http://ww2history.com/experts/Sir-Ian-Kershaw/Hitler-and-the-Holocaust.
While on the subject of signs, I should not forget to mention the one, read by all prisoners, that was posted at the entrance of the camp. It exhorted them with these words: “FREEDOM THROUGH WORK.” Here is a concrete example of what those words really meant. One day a line of box cars stopped at the Auschwitz unloading platform. The doors slid open and 300 prisoners climbed down. Their skin was a lemon yellow color, and they were emaciated beyond all description. When they entered the crematorium courtyard I had a chance to converse with some of them. This is the essence of what they said:
52 Anatoly Podolsky, ‘The Tragic Fate of Ukrainian Jewish Women under Nazi Occupation, 1941–1944’, in Sonja M. Hedgepeth and Rochelle G. Saidel (eds.), Sexual Violence against Jewish Women during the Holocaust, Brandeis University Press and University Press of New England, 2010, pp. 94–107, here p. 99.
Inasmuch as plans for the first evacuations were decided at SS headquarters in Oranienburg, it appears that the Dora-Mittelbau prisoners were to be taken to Neuengamme and those from Buchenwald to Flossenbürg. Broadly speaking, it was impossible to follow these instructions, but traces of them remained in some surprising routes, such as that of Gandersheim, which will be examined later.
As chief physician of the Auschwitz crematoriums, I drafted numerous affidavits of dissection and forensic medicine findings which I signed with my own tattoo number. I sent these documents by mail, counter signed by my superior, Dr. Mengele, to the Berlin-Dahlem address of the “Institut für Rassenbiologische und Anthropologische Forschungen,” one of the most qualified medical centers of the Third Reich. It should still be possible to find them today in the archives of this Research Institute.
Since the end of the Hitlerian Reich, along with the concentration camps that were one of its essential characteristics, literature on the subject has never ceased to grow within Germany itself and in the other countries concerned, in Europe as well as in the United States and Israel. Thus on the fiftieth anniversary of the end of the war and the “liberation of the camps,” a number of excellent commemorative works were published, most often in the form of anthologies. This particular study of the Dora camp, however, is of a quite different sort. It is a historical study, written by a historian, who also happens to have been a Häftling, a “prisoner,” in the camp, where his identity was reduced to the number 39570. In undertaking to write this book, I was seeking to meet the expectations of my fellow prisoners, who wanted it to be done by a professional historian.
26 Yves Beigbeder, Judging War Crimes and Torture: French Justice and International Criminal Tribunals and Commissions, 1940–2005, Martinus Nijhoff, 2006, pp. 143–7.
It is, to be sure, a French view of what happened in Dora and its subcamps, like the two memoirs that have preceded it in English. The voices of the Russian, Ukrainian, and Polish prisoners who formed over half the population of these camps have scarcely been heard, even in the new, excellent scholarly literature in German, because of the lingering effects of the division of Europe and the lack of expertise in Slavic languages in the West. (Jewish prisoners, mostly from Hungary, were only a small minority in the Mittelbau-Dora camps until the evacuation of Auschwitz and Gross Rosen in late January 1945.) We can only hope that this deficit, which is common to all works on the topic, will soon be remedied by new scholarly research. But even when it is, there is no doubt that André Sellier’s History of the Dora Camp will continue to be revered as a standard work on the topic. I highly recommend it to all readers.
Christian Wirth, like Dr Eberl, gave every indication that he revelled in his work. His adjutant, Josef Oberhauser, remarked that ‘His most outstanding features were iron relentlessness, unconditional obedience, belief in the Führer, absolute insensitivity and ruthlessness. These traits already characterized him in the euthanasia [action], where I got to know him; but he really was in his element when it came to the extermination of the Jews.’29 With Wirth ‘in his element’, the extermination process at Treblinka began again with the resumption of transports from the Warsaw ghetto on 3 September.
49 Max Abraham, Juda verrecke. Ein Rabbiner im Konzentrationslager (Death to Juda: A Rabbi in a Concentration Camp), reprinted in Irene A. Diekmann and Klaus Wettig (eds.), Konzentrationslager Oranienburg. Augenzeugenberichte aus dem Jahre 1933, Verlag für Berlin-Brandenburg, 2003, pp. 117–67, here p. 128.
The first is that the succession of inquiries, trials, and rehabilitation does not make it possible to state clearly if there were, for instance, liquidations of undesirable elements in the Revier or manifest abuses of authority of certain of those wearing armbands. One is inclined to think that the conditions particular to concentration camps did not allow for total innocence.
During the last months of 1944 a number of the non-Jewish prisoners from Auschwitz—often the more senior prisoners—were dispersed between the various other camps. In this way Hermann Langbein—an influential Austrian Red—found himself in August at Neuengamme;6 Wieslaw Kielar—who arrived at Auschwitz in the first convoy of Poles—was transferred to Porta Westfalica;7 and the majority of French survivors from the convoy of the “45,000”s were sent on to Flossenbürg, Sachsenhausen, or Gross Rosen.8 The objective of these departures—so it seems—was to disorganize the (clandestine) political structures of prisoner groups set up for the purposes of escape during evacuation.
One of these prisoners was Olivier Richet,50 who remained at Buchenwald from January 24 to September 22, 1944. He made one point that seemed to him essential: “The great difference between Buchenwald and Dora was that social life at Buchenwald was very wide-reaching. People from one Block visited those in another Block, they could walk around and talk to one another, especially on night duty, when they had much more free time. At Dora, night duty was much harder, and the Blockältester did not encourage walking around at all. Going into another Block to try and talk to friends was definitely not appreciated. Very often, ‘definitely not appreciated’ actually meant that it was prohibited. As a matter of fact, we had very, very little contact with each other at Dora.”
It was at this period that a second industrial brick building, located behind the first one, began to be used, and became Block 4. The Mémorial contains an evocation of this block at its origins, no doubt due to Louis-Clément Terral, who was the Friseur there.29 “From the outside, Block 4 does not look anything like the Blocks at Buchenwald or even at Dora, which are painted green. The Ellrich camp was organized in an old abandoned plaster works, and Block 4 was nothing but a miserable transformed hangar, two hundred feet long, sixty feet wide, forty feet high.
Thus the Germans got what they wanted from the creation of this model ghetto, for these reports by the International Red Cross had the effect of neutralizing, or better yet, of qualifying as evil slander the rumors going round concerning the horrors of the KZ and the crematoriums.
Yet, despite all of these restrictions, the majority of Germans still supported Hitler. In the 1934 referendum on the merging of the posts of President and Chancellor, for example, 88 per cent of the electorate wanted Hitler to become head of state after Hindenburg’s death. At the elections in 1936, which also contained a referendum question asking if voters approved of Hitler’s action in ordering the military reoccupation of Germany’s Rhineland, support for the Nazis was more than 98 per cent. These elections, we should remember, were held in a non-democratic state with none of the safeguards present in truly free elections, and the data cannot be used to imply a precise statistical level of support for the regime – but nonetheless the results remain enlightening. It is easy to see why the leading scholar on Hitler concludes from all the available evidence that the 1936 result represented ‘an overhelming show of acclamation for Hitler’.23 Many Germans in the 1930s would no doubt have agreed with Erna Krantz, who, looking back after the war, said, ‘It was, I thought, a better time [than today]. To say this is of course taking a risk. But I’ll say it anyway.’24
Equally, I must add, I would not want this work to rely solely on oral testimony, which is why the book also draws on many speeches, diaries and documents of the time. My aim was to weave all this material into an examination of the decision-making process of the Holocaust, informed by the immense amount of outstanding scholarship conducted in this area since the war.
I shall quote just one example: “Among our fellow prisoners arrested the same time we were, was Marius Reimann, from Albert in the Somme, and his son Claude. Upon arrival in Buchenwald, Marius was given the number 39568, Claude number 39569, and myself number 39570. We arrived at Dora together on 11 February 1944. One morning, Claude found his father dead beside him. That day, Marius was one of the ‘deaths in the Tunnel.’ He appears on the list dated 28 February 1944.” Rogerie quotes another: “Then Buchet got up a last time and all of a sudden collapsed to the ground. He was dead. His body was immediately thrown onto the heap of the day’s dead. There were easily fifteen there, piled up any old way.”24
The Americans were not the only ones to pursue the war criminals, and especially those in charge of the concentration camps, but it was they who took on the brunt of the task in this domain. They had significant means at their disposal. Some of them, moreover, had a good knowledge of the German language because of their origins, Jewish or otherwise. They had liberated Buchenwald, Dora-Mittelbau, Flossenbürg, Dachau, and Mauthausen as well as the camps’ Kommandos. They had discovered Ohrdruf, Nordhausen, Gardelegen, the little Buchenwald camp, typhus at Dachau, Ebensee, and Wöbbelin. In the Schwerin region they had taken in the prisoners evacuated from Sachsenhausen and Ravensbrück. They were not inclined to indulgence, as will be seen in the first trials.
At the same time as the crucifix controversy festered within Germany, Hitler’s soldiers appeared to be winning the war against the Soviet Union. Minsk, the capital of Belarus, fell to the Germans at the end of June and nearly 300,000 Red Army soldiers were captured. By now, only a week after the launch of the attack, German panzers were almost a third of the way to Moscow. This was not just the largest invasion in history – it was the swiftest as well. In conversation with his acolytes, Hitler basked in the glory. He said: ‘to those who ask me whether it will be enough to reach the Urals as a frontier, I reply that for the present it is enough for the frontier to be drawn back as far as that. What matters is that Bolshevism must be exterminated.’ His plans for Moscow were simple; the city must ‘disappear from the earth’s surface’.35 Ten days later, on 16 July, Hitler met with leading Nazi figures, including Göring, Bormann and Rosenberg, and announced that he intended to build a ‘Garden of Eden’ in the eastern territories, using ‘all necessary measures’ such as ‘shooting’ and ‘resettlements’. Anyone who ‘even looks sideways at us’, he said, should be killed.36
An evacuation column leaving Oranienburg on April 21 could go in only one direction: northeast to Schwerin in the western part of Mecklenburg, then to Lübeck, and beyond that to Holstein. Naturally, such a plan was based on the assumption that the Soviet and American forces would stay put, which they did not do. Inevitably the route ultimately turned into a dead-end. There has been a great deal of speculation, after the fact, about what the SS actually had in mind when they decided on the evacuation, which presupposes that they could have decided not to evacuate Sachsenhausen and Oranienburg with all that that implied. Once the decision to evacuate was made, there were no longer any other possibilities. When Keitel and Jodl went to set up headquarters in Fürstenberg and Plön, they were caught in the same geographical trap. In early May it was easy for them to avoid the dead-end route, but one week later it meant surrendering.
Some Sonderkommandos took the valuables of the Jews who were killed – in particular jewellery that had been secreted either in their clothes or within the orifices of their bodies. They then tried to exchange these valuables for other goods they wanted. They could do this because, despite the isolation of the crematoria, contact between the Sonderkommandos and other prisoners in the camp was still possible. Otto Pressburger, sent to Auschwitz in 1942 from Slovakia, remembers how he had an opportunity to visit the Sonderkommandos because he drove a horse and cart transporting various goods around Birkenau. And he was always keen to do ‘business’ with them. ‘They [the Sonderkommandos] wanted alcohol and cigarettes, and they had plenty of gold [to pay for them]. The “business” in the crematorium was the best. I always wanted to be delivering cargoes to the crematorium. You could always buy things there … Once I came to the crematorium asking if they had something to sell. I got offered a jewelled spider. Very rich Jews who used to have jewellery stores came to the camp at that time. I asked what they [the Sonderkommandos] wanted for the spider. They said a hundred cigarettes. I said if the spider is worth it then I will bring the cigarettes. We used to trust each other. The spider was beautiful. There was a big stone in the middle and the legs were covered in brilliant [jewels]. I took the spider to our Polish civilians [construction workers who lived outside the camp but worked inside during the day] and offered it to them … Each of us made a profit.’
Dr. Mengele’s decision to liquidate C Camp had been carried out. Every evening fifty trucks brought the victims, 4,000 at a time, to the crematoriums. A horrible sight, this caravan of trucks, their headlights stabbing the darkness, each bearing a human cargo of eighty women who either filled the air with their screams or sat mute, paralyzed with fear. In slow succession the trucks rolled up and dumped the women, who had already been stripped of their clothes, at the top of the stairway leading down into the gas chamber. From there they were quickly pushed below. They all knew where they were going, but the rigors of their four months captivity, the corporal punishment they had been made to endure, and the disintegration of their nervous systems, had reduced them to such a point that they were no longer capable of putting up any resistance, or even of feeling pain. They were herded passively into the gas chambers. Weary of being hunted and persecuted, of living in constant fear, they dumbly awaited the hand of the sure physician, Death. For them life had lost all meaning and purpose. To prolong it would merely have prolonged their suffering.
Wirth chose Franz Stangl, currently commandant of Sobibór, to replace Dr Eberl. Because Sobibór was temporarily closed while the railway line that ran next to the camp was repaired and the gas chambers enlarged, Stangl was free to take over almost at once. Even so, Wirth decided to stay on at the camp for a few weeks to oversee the cleaning-up process, together with Stangl. This was a major undertaking, as witnessed on his arrival by one of the cruellest of all the SS figures working in the death camps, SS Oberscharführer (Company Sergeant Major) Kurt Franz, an SS officer nicknamed ‘Doll’ because of his supposed baby-faced looks: ‘In the camp there were bodies lying everywhere … These bodies were dragged through the camp to the upper section by Jews. The working Jews were forced to keep moving by the [Ukrainian] guards, also by the Germans … There was tremendous confusion and a horrible din … During my walk I established that some of the guard squads were with girls and had put down their rifles.’26 Kurt Franz’s specialty at Bełżec had been dealing with the auxiliaries – guards who had been selected from Soviet POWs to work at the death camps – collectively known, as we have seen, as ‘Ukrainians’. So he now tried to establish order among them.
BUILDING THE BARRACKS. A concentration camp’s history generally starts with the construction of the camp itself, preceded by that of the SS barracks. At Dora, given the absolute priority given to getting the tunnel factory up and running, it seems that the SS were left for some time in their tents alone and that their barracks were first set up by prisoners requisitioned to build the quarters after their work hours in the tunnel or in the earthworks. The SS ultimately obtained the use of special Kommandos, who also built the kitchen and various other camp buildings.
One point on which they all agreed was the magnitude of the horror. ‘There is no doubt that this is probably the greatest and most horrible crime ever committed in the whole history of the world,’ wrote Churchill on 11 July 1944, ‘and it has been done by scientific machinery by nominally civilized men in the name of a great State and one of the leading races of Europe … Declarations should be made in public, so that everyone connected with it will be hunted down and put to death.’1 But words of outrage and threat on their own, of course, didn’t directly help the Jews who were dying in Auschwitz.
50 Avraham Tory, Surviving the Holocaust: The Kovno Ghetto Diary, Harvard University Press, 1991, p. 24, entry for 4 August 1941.
Concerning the Reds, it is immediately striking to note how few of them were sent to Dora. Quite plainly, the prisoner leaders at Buchenwald didn’t wish to risk the lives of their comrades in this altogether uncertain venture. Doubtless the commander of Buchenwald must have insisted on the appointment of two of their own for the positions of Lagerältester I and II of Dora. It ended up being a Bavarian mechanic, Georg Thomas, and a miner from Upper Silesia, Ludwig Sczymczak, both German communists, who were chosen. They arrived, so it would appear, already on August 28, 1943, along with the Kapo Lagerschutz Otto Runke.
A transport of sixty-one prisoners was registered on September 20 in Buchenwald, coming from Sachsenhausen. They were immediately sent to Dora. The group was made up of sixty miners from the Pas-de-Calais and from Huy in Belgium, and of Léon Bronchart, who had the number 21983. The numbers of the others went beyond “22,000.” The return of prisoners sent to Karls-hagen was registered in Buchenwald on October 14. They were renumbered, some toward the end of the “22,000” series, some at the beginning of the “28,000” series. Both groups were immediately sent to Dora.
Despite this history, and a group of Hungarian anti-Semites willing to assist him, Eichmann knew he was embarking on a vast enterprise that was fraught with difficulties. The potential, from the Nazis’ perspective, for the whole project to fall apart was large. Suppose the Jews learnt that they were all to be shipped to Auschwitz, where the majority of them – particularly the most vulnerable – would be murdered? Wouldn’t they then do all they could to hide and even resist? Eichmann was aware of the precedent of the Warsaw ghetto uprising – what if something similar happened in Budapest?
The most important difference between Buchenwald and Dora was the compartmentalized social life that was restricted to the Kommandos, whose members tended to remain the same and were all housed together in the same blocks. As a result, some found themselves in a privileged environment, which was exactly how our young Bachkir viewed his situation.
RASSINIER’S DISSENT. Rousset’s and Kogon’s schema does not, however, reflect a unanimous opinion. In 1946 one of the few British prisoners at Buchenwald, Christopher Burney, published The Dungeon Democracy in which, among other bold assertions, he declared that the communists were nothing but “Nazis painted red.” It should also be pointed out that two members of the Psychological Warfare Division, Egon W. Fleck and Edward A. Tenenbaum, had passed through Buchenwald before Rosenberg’s team got there and that in a brief report they did not seem very convinced by the testimonies they had gathered. Their text was later exploited against the communists.
BACK TO NORMAL. The preceding paragraphs have shown the exceptional confusion that reigned with regard to the concentration camps between 1945 and 1953—that is, until Stalin’s death. Subsequently they all came to take their normal places, so to speak.
THE LAST PRISONERS IN ORANIENBURG. When the Sachsenhausen camp was evacuated on Saturday, April 21 in the morning, there were still fifteen hundred patients in the Revier, including sick prisoners transferred by truck from the Heinkel Kommando. Six prisoner doctors stayed with them: two Frenchmen, Émile-Louis Coudert and Marcel Leboucher; two Belgians, Delaunnois and Jean Sommerhausen; and two Dutchmen, Justus Koch and Franz Bischoff. There had been some discussion of blowing up the five blocks of the Revier, but it did not occur.
There are thousands upon thousands of names on the wall – nearly fifteen thousand in total. When I look at all those names of survivors engraved in copper, I fully appreciate for the first time the massive scale of the rescue operation. The wall of names was erected in a symbolic place: the square in front of the Ohel Moshe Synagogue. That was where, in the early months of 1946, bulletin boards displayed the names of Shoah survivors. Every few days, new names were added.
At least twice I had felt the wings of death brush by me: once, prostrate on the ground, with a company of SS trained in the art of summary execution poised above me, I had escaped unharmed. But three thousand of my friends, who had also known the terrible secrets of the crematoriums, had not been so lucky. I had marched for hundreds of kilometers through fields of snow, fighting the cold, hunger, and my own exhaustion, merely to reach another concentration camp. The road I had traveled had indeed been long.
For about twelve minutes we drove through the labyrinth of barbed wire and entered well-guarded gates, thus passing from one section to another. Only then did I realize how vast the KZ was. Few people had the possibility of verifying that fact, because the majority died at the very place to which they were sent when they first arrived. Later I learned that the Auschwitz KZ had. at certain periods, held more than 100,000 people within its enclosure of electrified barbed wire.2
By this point in the evolution of Auschwitz the gassing of Polish political prisoners was not unusual. On 29 February 1944, for instance, 163 Poles who had been sent to Block 11 from Mysłowice prison were transported to Crematorium IV in Birkenau, along with forty-one other prisoners from Auschwitz. Among the condemned was a young Polish woman who, once she reached the crematorium, told the SS that everyone knew they were about to die in the gas chambers so the secrecy that had once surrounded this crime was no more. The Germans, she said, would one day be called to account for what they had done. As they entered the gas chamber, the Poles sang ‘Poland Is Not Yet Lost’ and ‘To the Barricades’.16 It is a reminder, both of the bravery of these individuals when faced with certain death, and that not only Jews perished in the gas chambers of Birkenau.
21 Testimony of Fritz Arlt, published here for the first time. But see also Arlt’s testimony in Rees, Nazis, pp. 151–2, and Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 34.
Tadeusz Smreczyński was well aware that one of the functions of Auschwitz was to murder Jews. Indeed, once in the middle of the night he witnessed the emotional aftermath of a mass killing when he heard ‘some commotion’ outside his block: ‘I peeped through the window very discreetly so as not to be seen and shot. There were men – only young and middle-aged – all naked. Their families had been gassed and they were brought to the main camp. They were ordered to stand in compact groups of five but they were in panic and each wanted to be close to his nearest relative: brother, father or a friend. SS men with dogs and Kapos were beating them. It was a teeming mass of human bodies reflected in the light of the lamps. It was a horrible sight.’ He imagined how he would have felt if ‘my parents had just been gassed and I stayed alive. It must have been a terrible experience – that sense of helplessness in the face of fate. One could do absolutely nothing to save one’s loved ones.’
68 Testimony of Wilhelm Jaschke, Vilsbiburg, 5 April 1960, BArch 202, AR-Z 152/159. And Rees, Auschwitz, p. 69.
Since Bełżec would become the model for the other specialized death camps – Sobibór and Treblinka – it is worth spending time examining the thinking behind its construction. In conception, Bełżec was very different from the place that would become the most infamous of the camps – Auschwitz Birkenau. Bełżec, unlike Auschwitz, was small. The camp was roughly square, with each side about 300 yards long, and with one side built parallel to the nearby railway line. Within that space the camp was divided into two. The area nearest to the railway contained a roll-call square, barracks where the arriving Jews undressed, accommodation for guards and a small Jewish workforce, and a storage area for the goods stolen from the Jews. The second part of the camp was the place of extermination. This was separated by a fence from the arrival area and connected to it by a narrow passageway known as the ‘tube’. Within the extermination section of the camp was space for bodies to be burnt and buried, as well as the three gas chambers themselves. These had been placed in wooden huts disguised as shower blocks and – in an attempt to seal the space hermetically – the double walls had been filled with sand and lined with tin on the inside.
transports to. See also Concentration camps.
August Kowalczyk, a Polish political prisoner in Auschwitz, witnessed how the SS tried to seal the area in Block 11 where the prisoners were to be gassed by blocking it off with soil and sand. But either the sealing process was ineffective or insufficient Zyklon B was used, because the day after the gassing he saw one SS man running back and forth in an agitated way. It turned out that some prisoners were still alive, so more Zyklon B crystals were poured into the makeshift gas chamber. The terrible agonies faced by these unknown Soviet POWs and sick prisoners as they half suffocated during the night in Block 11 can scarcely be imagined.69
Over the last twenty-five years I have read many astonishing Holocaust memoirs and a number of insightful academic histories of the crime, but I have not come across a general work that sought to combine both the emotional power of first-hand interview testimony with an analysis of the machinations of the Nazi state in quite the way that I intended here. Hence my hope that, in this respect too, the book is something of a ‘new’ history.
The arrival of Durand as pathologist at Dora was totally unimportant, as he well knew. His account is only interesting for the aspects it revealed of how the concentration camp system functioned. First, it had to do with the great number of small “transports” from one camp to the other. Researchers seeking to learn more about the destiny of the members of a convoy recognize that they will inevitably come across convoys without understanding why they took place. The example of Durand shows that this absence of necessity was not unusual. Evacuated from Struthof to Allach and Dachau, then transferred to Mauthausen, he ended up at Dora without actually being needed—and without this transfer having anything to do with his arrest.
The concentration camp system was still largely intact. The prisoners from Struthof in Alsace had been transferred to Dachau or into Kommandos in southern Germany. Those prisoners from Maïdanek close to Lublin went toward the west. The Soviets had reached Sobibor, Treblinka, and Belzec, but these “killing centers” for Jews had been carefully destroyed after use.
7. Jean Bezaut, Oranienburg, Sachsenhausen, p. 332.
During 1943, the Nazis didn’t just transport Jews to Auschwitz. They also sent other categories of people they considered a threat, including Sinti and Roma – those the Nazis called ‘Gypsies’. A Gypsy camp was created within Birkenau, and the first transport of several hundred Sinti and Roma arrived at Auschwitz in February 1943. At its height the Gypsy camp at Birkenau contained 15,000 people. Unusually, the Sinti and Roma were not selected on arrival but were permitted to stay in family groups. This was most probably because a final decision about their collective fate had not yet been taken, but the fact that they could remain together did not mean that the Sinti and Roma received preferential treatment in any physical sense – they were still brutally mistreated. Hermann Höllenreiner, who came from a Sinti background and was sent to Birkenau as a child, remembers that he and the other children were so hungry that ‘We would pull out the grass like rabbits so that we could just eat it. And if an SS caught us we would get beaten. That was also bad. But then everything that happened in Birkenau was bad … We lived in constant fear. Every moment we thought now they will beat my father or my mother to death, or that we will be gassed; we knew that every moment could be the one we are gassed.’39
Golda Meir, later Prime Minister of Israel, witnessed personally the combination of hot air and hypocrisy that characterized the Evian conference. She wrote that she felt a ‘mixture of sorrow, rage, frustration and horror’ and wanted to ‘scream’ at the delegates that these ‘numbers’ were ‘human beings, people who may spend the rest of their lives in concentration camps, or wandering around the world like lepers, if you don’t let them in’.59
Another function of Auschwitz, which distinguished the place from the Reinhard camps, was the increasing instance of medical experimentation. The most infamous medical practitioner at Auschwitz arrived in spring 1943 – Dr Josef Mengele. His ‘research’ into twins and dwarfs would shock the world when it was revealed in all its cruelty. In his work he was assisted by a number of prisoners. One of them was Wilhelm Brasse, who had been sent to Auschwitz as a Polish political prisoner in 1940 at the age of twenty-two, and so by 1943 was one of the longest-serving inmates in the camp. He had trained as a photographer, and it was this skill that the German doctors at Auschwitz sought to exploit. ‘I spoke to Dr Mengele,’ he says. ‘He explained to me that he would send women to me, Jewish women, twins and triplets and all kinds of cases, and he wanted photos to show the whole person from the front, from the side, profile and from the back. Also naked [photos] … These women were very much ashamed and intimidated. The children were terribly intimidated. They were afraid even to speak to one another. As far as what they looked like those were young women, young girls just developing – they were not worn out. He [Mengele] would take them from the transports … I felt ashamed and it was painful, unpleasant …’ Wilhelm Brasse took pictures of some appalling sights. ‘He [Mengele] explained to me he would send from the Gypsy camp a case of water cancer. I’ve forgotten the other name of this illness, the professional name [a disease known as noma, which was prevalent in the Gypsy camp] … They sent a young Gypsy who had the cancer, water cancer on his face, you could see the whole jaw, you could see the bone visible, and he [Mengele] explained to me it must be photographed from profile so the bone would be visible … These things are constantly before my eyes. After the war I had recurring dreams, either of someone brought from Dr Mengele or they’re looking for me, taking me to be shot.’2
‘They brought us to Mauthausen,’ remembers Tadeusz Smreczyński. ‘SS men from Mauthausen surrounded our train. Meanwhile the armed SS escort from Auschwitz were standing on the platform doing their best to kick or hit everybody leaving the train with their rifle butts, as if saying goodbye. I saw what was happening. I waited at the back of the train, gathered speed and jumped out of the wagon a few metres away from the escorting guards. I did it to avoid being hit and I was not. New SS guards escorted us to Mauthausen camp. Dawn was breaking. The windows [of the houses] were shut but you could see the curtains open slightly as the Austrians discreetly watched what was happening. We reached the camp. It was situated on a hill with beautiful scenery around and the Alps visible – an area of exceptional beauty where people were meeting their tragic fate.’19
2 Jürgen Matthäus, Jochen Böhler and Klaus-Michael Mallmann (eds.), War, Pacification, and Mass Murder, 1939: The Einsatzgruppen in Poland, Documenting Life and Destruction: Holocaust Sources in Context, Rowman & Littlefield, 2014, p. 44, document 5: Diary notes by SS Hauptsturmführer Erich Ehlers, Einsatzgruppe II, for 1 to 5 September 1939.
There was no denying it, the name “Dr. Mengele,” the mention of the crematorium, and the ostentatious display of cigarettes had made a strong impression on the SS slave. Now I was certain of being able to spend at least an hour or two with my former friends. But first to find out why Dr. Mengele had sent for me.
One of the very important consequences of this overall growth in the number of prisoners in the camps was that it made the Germans very much a minority. Langbein provides several examples of this.30 “In Buchenwald, they made up twelve percent after the liberation, almost a third of whom were Austrian; in Mauthausen, in March 1945, the proportion was approximately nine percent, and eight percent in Dora, including all the sub-camps, on 1 April 1945. Twelve prisoners from Sachsenhausen, who were still there immediately after the Liberation, wrote up a report according to which there was, after 1942, no more than a minority of eight to ten percent Germans, very few of whom were political. Dachau, on Liberation day, had no more than three percent Germans and 0.8% Austrians.” Langbein followed up with percentages for Gross Rosen (2 percent), Flossenbürg (5.5 percent), and for Auschwitz (1.9 percent).
Hermann Langbein, an Austrian who spent a long time in Dachau, then in Auschwitz, is—along with Kogon—the best analyst of the Nazi concentration camp system. In two chapters of his work, La Résistance dans les camps de concentration nationaux-socialistes, he successively examined “The prisoners’ autonomous administration” and “The struggle between the Reds and the Greens.”25 He insists on the need to avoid an excessively black-and-white view of events in seeing Evil on the side of the Greens and Good on the side of the Reds. He nonetheless concludes that, overall, the Reds were by far and away preferable to the Greens, both in the case of communist control as at Buchenwald or Sachsenhausen, or social democratic and Catholic control as in Dachau. The omnipresence of Greens at Dora, in the difficult periods, on the other hand, had tragic consequences.
Concentration camps
ANNIHILATION TIME HAD COME FOR the 4,500 inhabitants of the Gypsy Camp. The measures taken were the same as those taken for the liquidation of the Czech Camp. All the barracks were quarantined. SS guards, leading their police dogs, invaded the Gypsy quarters and chased the inhabitants outside, where they were made to line up. Rations of bread and salami were distributed. The gypsies were made to believe that they were being shipped to another camp, and they swallowed the story. A very easy and efficacious way of calming their fears. No one thought of the crematoriums, for then why would rations of food have been distributed?
A third institution, the Politische Abteilung, did not concern itself with the internal operations of the camp. It kept the political and criminal files that followed the prisoners on their peregrinations between the prisons and the camps. By chance Albert Besançon,11 who went through the small camp of Rechlin-Retzow (in Mecklenburg) before arriving in Ellrich at a late date, was able to get a glimpse of his file, which had accompanied him from Fresnes to Sachsenhausen via Neuenbremme, Trier, Cologne, and Berlin. The prisoners who worked at the Politische Abteilung managed the data sheets but did not have access to the files.
Dr. Mengele wanted to solve the problem of the multiplication of the race by studying the human material—or rather, the twin material—that he was free to employ as he saw fit. Dr. Wolff was searching for the causes of dysentery. Actually, its causes are not difficult to determine; even the layman knows them. Dysentery is caused by applying the following formula: take any individual—man, woman, or innocent child—snatch him away from his home, stack him with a hundred others in a sealed box car, in which a bucket of water has first been thoughtfully placed, then pack them off, after they have spent six preliminary weeks in a ghetto, to Auschwitz. There pile them by the thousands into barracks unfit to serve as stables. For food, give them a ration of mouldy bread made from wild chestnuts, a sort of margarine of which the basic ingredient is lignite, thirty grams of sausage made from the flesh of mangy horses, the whole not to exceed 700 calories. To wash this ration down, a half liter of soup made from nettles and weeds, containing nothing fatty, no flour, no salt. In four weeks, dysentery will invariably appear. Then, three or four weeks later, the patient will be “cured,” for he will die in spite of any belated treatment he may receive from the camp doctors.
I dreaded the truth, fearing to return to an empty, plundered home, a home where neither parents nor wife, daughter nor sister, would be waiting to greet me with warmth and affection. Persecution and sorrow, the horrors of the crematorium and funeral pyres, my eight months in the kommando of the living dead, had dulled my sense of good and evil.
During the days preceding the evacuation the Sachsenhausen camp continued operating, since newcomers such as Dutillieux, Wautrecht, and Lafond were given identity numbers. At Ellrich, on the other hand, prisoners arriving from Karlshagen at the beginning of the month were not given identity numbers. The situation was not calm, however, for there were bombing raids, particularly one on March 15 of the Auer factories and the one on April 10 that hit Klinker as well as the SS factories in the pine forest.
Along with not knowing the number of prisoners in the eastern camps who died before they could be registered at Dora, it is also not known to which group they mainly belonged. Everything points to the Jews from Auschwitz as being essentially the ones whose bodies were burned on the pyres. Overall they were in a state to put up the least resistance, except for those coming from less trying Kommandos—like Jules Hofstein, the doctor from Bismarckshütte. The Jewish women had only a stopover at Dora before leaving again for Bergen-Belsen. Simone Weil was one of them.23
It’s also significant, in the context of this expansion of Nazi terror, that the late 1930s saw the opening of the first concentration camp specifically for women at Lichtenburg in Saxony, with the first prisoners entering the camp in December 1937. Up to this point women had been imprisoned within the traditional prison system, or at a much smaller camp at Moringen administered by the Prussian state. Only a minority of prisoners within the concentration camp system were women, less than 12 per cent prior to the outbreak of the war.42 But the number of women targeted by the Nazi security forces increased as they looked further afield for potential enemies, a development also illustrated by the opening of the notorious female concentration camp at Ravensbrück, north of Berlin, in the spring of 1939. This – the largest of the camps for women – absorbed all of the female prisoners from Lichtenburg and then expanded still further.
The image that dominated opinion was that of a vast and ill-defined concentration camp complex symbolized by several especially well-known names such as Buchenwald and Dachau, or even Sachsenhausen and Mauthausen. Nothing at the time, for instance, drew attention to the particular fate of the Jews at Auschwitz, and Bergen-Belsen seemed a usual sort of camp.
For a long period the direct involvement of the SS in the economy was limited, and was exercised through the intermediary of the company Deutsche Erd- und Steinwerke, or German Earth and Stone Works, created on April 29, 1938.12 The sadly famous Mauthausen quarry and Klinker Brickworks in Oranienburg served both repression and industrial activity. Elsewhere, in many camps, including Buchenwald as well as Dora, for example, the Quarry (Steinbruch) Kommando continued to have a disciplinary function.
Albert Besançon,82 who, having come from Oranienburg, was Schreiber and pharmacist at the Rechlin-Retzow camp Revier in Mecklenburg, got to Ellrich on February 12, 1945, with identity number 114977 and then began working with Grand. (Paul von Gunten83 had arrived on January 4, coming from Alt Ruppin after having passed through Buchenwald and Sachsenhausen. He ended up at Woffleben.)
Inside the Reich, transports between the major camps played an important role, as the previous chapters have shown. Buchenwald continued to receive Polish, Czech, Russian, and Hungarian Jewish prisoners from Auschwitz, but other prisoners left Buchenwald for Mauthausen or Flossenbürg. In such cases the convoys carried hundreds of prisoners, but there are also examples of smaller transports, such as sending “medical” personnel from Dachau to Stutthof (Kientzler and Weil) or to Dora (Lassus and Pahor). The individual transfer of Durand from Mauthausen to Dora was an extreme case but by no means exceptional.
Soon after she arrived she was told by other inmates that ‘there are gas chambers here,’ but it just didn’t seem possible that such places could exist. ‘Nobody believed them,’ says Ida. ‘Not one of us believed them. It was beyond belief. We said either they’re joking or they’ve lost their minds.’ Only after she smelt the noxious odours coming from the Birkenau crematoria did she ‘finally’ accept that ‘perhaps they were right about the smell, that they were actually burning people.’
64 Recollection of former SS General Karl Wolff, The World at War, Thames Television, 27 March 1974, quoted in Martin Gilbert, The Holocaust: The Jewish Tragedy, Collins, 1986, p. 191.
And what a long road they had traveled in coming here! How filled with unimaginable sorrow each lap of that journey! First, their warm, comfortable homes had been invaded and pillaged. Then, together with their husbands, children, and parents, they had been taken to the brick-kilns on the far edge of town, where for weeks they had been made to live and sleep in the swamps born of the spring rains. These were the “ghettos,” from which, in small groups, they had been taken every day to the specially designed torture chambers, outfitted with all the latest instruments conducive to making people “talk.” There they had been questioned, until, half dead with pain, they had confessed either the hiding place of their valuables, or the name of the person to whom they had confided them. Many had died from these interrogations. Those who survived had been almost relieved to find themselves being loaded into boxcars, eighty or ninety to a car, for it had meant they were leaving the torture chambers far behind.
When the Brauny convoy started up, it went through Salzgitter and Brunswick on its way north until it reached Gifhorn, where orders were received to go to Sachsenhausen. At that point a bombing raid exploded an ammunition train in the station of Solpke, west of Gardelegen, making the tracks impossible to use. On April 10 the Brauny convoy was forced to stop at the station in Mieste. The Ilfeld Kommando had already set out on foot from Oebisfelde. Another convoy then arrived in Mieste. It was coming from the camp in Stöcken in the western suburbs of Hanover, with three to four hundred sick prisoners accompanied by two French doctors. “Living skeletons” said Doctor Maistriaux.25
Regarding the original SS the language was unequivocal, as shown by Serge Miller32 in describing how the newcomers of May 20, 1944, were received: “We saw an SS officer, or rather a puppet, a lanky looking fellow, moving toward us. He crossed his arms on his chest, threw his head back, and jeered at us: ‘So! That’s how you remove your forage caps, is it? You must think you’re still at Buchenwald! In the Sanatorium! With the Bolsheviks! Well, that’s all over now, I’m in charge here and to start with, you bunch of louts are going to do a half-hour of exercise.’ On paper, that may not have the same effect, but, I swear, it had one on us. He didn’t speak, he bellowed, gesticulated, and frothed at the mouth as if he had been bitten by a rabid dog. And those who didn’t speak German must have wondered if it was the devil himself in front of us. All the soldiers and noncommissioned officers who supervised us were from the Luftwaffe, but the commander—which is who he was—was with the SS.”
Olivier Richet’s text helps us understand how it was possible at Buchenwald to have a real cultural life in addition to a social life, with a real library and even, discreetly, a jazz band. It should be noted that neither Olivier Richet nor Paul Le Goupil belonged to the camp “functionaries.” They both worked in camp factories (Gustloff, Mibau), which they were forced to leave after their destruction by bombing on August 24. They enjoyed the same status as the tunnel “specialists” at Dora who belonged to the Scherer or Bünemann Kommandos. Richet was then sent to work in the tunnel in a Kommando inspecting V1s.
Yes, the Birkenau KZ was on fire. Some of the guards’ rooms, in which the camp records were stored, were burning. A large crowd, perhaps 3,000, was gathered in front of the camp gate waiting for the order to leave. Without hesitation I joined their ranks. No one knew me here. I was no longer the bearer of unholy secrets, no longer a member of the Sonderkommando, and therefore did not have to die. Here I was merely another KZ prisoner, lost in the crowd. It seemed to me this was the best solution. My colleagues concurred. Everyone was fleeing Birkenau, but I judged it improbable that they would be able to take us very far. In a day or two the Russians would catch up with us. But sometime before that happened, the SS would desert. Meanwhile, our best bet was to march with the others between the two lines of fire.
This was still, therefore, an important moment in the evolution of the Holocaust, but it does not amount to initiating the whole enterprise by one single, overarching decision. A large number of questions remained unresolved in the autumn of 1941. What about the Jews in occupied western Europe, were they also to be sent east to die? If so, when? And what about the rest of the Jews still in the Old Reich? Forty-two thousand Jews were deported from the Old Reich and the Protectorate between October and December 1941, but that still left the majority behind. What was the timetable for their destruction? Most tellingly of all, what about the nearly 3 million Jews of Poland, was this really the moment their fate was sealed? Why, if there was a decision at this point to kill all the Polish Jews, were the only two killing centres that were actually under construction in Poland on such a small scale? Could not both of them – Bełżec and Chełmno – also be explained as local initiatives created under Himmler’s aegis to deal with local ‘problems’? In short, doesn’t it appear that those on the ground were, to an extent, working out what to do without precise orders from above?
At the same time as the Hungarian Jews suffered in Auschwitz Birkenau, a mile and a half away Tadeusz Smreczyński tried to survive in Auschwitz main camp. Most of the Poles he had arrived at Auschwitz with a few weeks before had already been sent to the gas chambers, and in early July 1944 he thought it was his turn to die. In the middle of the night, the SS ordered him to join a group of several hundred prisoners and march to Birkenau. ‘Nobody told us what was going to happen,’ he says. ‘During our march we were surrounded by SS men, and one of my friends proposed that we attack them if they are taking us to the gas chambers, because a fast death from a bullet is better than being suffocated for a dozen minutes.’17
Conditions there were unusually favorable, whereas at that very same time tragic situations were developing in Ellrich, Nordhausen, and Blankenburg. Similarly, again at the same time, the Mülhausen Kommando, under the authority of Buchenwald, was spared in the north the hellish conditions of Ohrdruf. In the same vein, Langbein102 has mentioned the Brieg camp on the Oder River, operating under the authority of Gross Rosen, which only had one death out of a thousand prisoners over a period of two months.
The outbreak of war also had dire consequences for Jews within the concentration camps that had been established on German territory before the conflict. While there is no evidence of an order from above calling on the Jews in the concentration camps to be murdered en masse, the SS within the camps knew that the febrile atmosphere of the war meant they could act against the Jews more or less as they wished. The arrival of a number of Polish Jews within the system only exacerbated the desire of the SS to torment the Jewish inmates. At Sachsenhausen outside Berlin the SS let their sadistic imagination run wild – thirsty Jewish prisoners were made to swallow their own urine, and those who were hungry had to beat each other up for food.61 At Buchenwald near Weimar, more than twenty Jews were taken out of the camp and shot in November 1939, in revenge for an attempt on Hitler’s life that had taken place in Munich the day before.62
BUCHENWALD AND THE CONCENTRATION CAMP SYSTEM IN 1943
46. Crematorium IV at Auschwitz. Unlike Crematoria II and III, which were altered at the design stage to incorporate gas chambers, this building (together with Crematorium V) was conceived from the beginning as a place of mass murder. The gas chambers and undressing room were on the same level as the ovens where the bodies were burnt.
36 Barbara Distel and Ruth Jakusch (eds.), Concentration Camp, Dachau 1933–1945, Comité International de Dachau, 16th edn, 1978, p. 40.
33. On the special conditions regarding the functioning of Blocks 46 and 50 in the Buchenwald Revier, see the passages on Stéphane Hessel and Alfred Balachowsky in chapter 17.
Balachowsky, a Frenchman of Russian origin who had arrived in Buchenwald with the first convoy of January 1944, was quickly sent to Dora, where he did spray-painting on the Spitze of the V2s. As he was a well-known scientist at the Pasteur Institute, he was brought back from Dora to Buchenwald following a high-level decision because prisoners could not leave Dora (not at that time at any rate).8
Having nothing else to do, I remained seated beneath a little arbor not far from the casks. A deep silence surrounded me. Some prisoner-masons were in the process of repairing the crematorium chimneys. Dusk was falling. The casks ought to be cold by now. I was just about to have them emptied when one of my men came running up to me and said: “Doctor, hurry, the Poles are eating the meat in the casks! ”
“Herr Oberschaarführer, I’m the doctor for the Auschwitz convoy. Let me into the baths.”
On 15 November, the Germans continued their advance towards Moscow after the mud had frozen, but their energy was almost spent. In a final effort in early December, some forward German units managed to advance to less than 20 miles from Moscow. But this was as far as they would ever get. The whole course of the war in the east – and as a consequence the whole of the war in general – was about to change. Indeed there is a strong case for saying that the events of December 1941 were both the turning point of the Second World War and one of the most decisive periods in the evolution of the Holocaust.
The purpose of the autopsy was to determine whether the shot had been fired from in front or behind, what the caliber and characteristics of the murder weapon were, and from what approximate distance the crime had been committed. At that time there was no doctor at Gleiwitz qualified as a coroner; that was why the body had been brought to Auschwitz for an autopsy, for Gleiwitz was only 40 kilometers away, and Auschwitz was consequently the nearest spot where an autopsy could be performed under satisfactory conditions.
The Nazis now began to pursue more radical policies within Germany itself. In an operation that began on 21 April 1938 the Gestapo moved against ‘work-shy’ Germans. Those unemployed who had declined two separate offers of work were taken to Buchenwald concentration camp. The Criminal Police instigated a similar move against ‘asocials’ in June 1938. A significant feature of this operation was that any German Jew who had a previous criminal conviction was arrested as well.9 It didn’t matter if the Jews arrested were fit for work or not, it was enough simply to be a Jew with a criminal conviction and to have previously served one month or more in jail.10 This was one of the first examples of how, in the enforcement of nationwide actions, Jews were treated more harshly than others.
THE STATE OF THE BUCHENWALD CAMP IN THE SUMMER OF 1943. The Buchenwald camp was set up in 1937 with the arrival of a first group of Greens on July 19. On August 6 there were 1,400 prisoners on the site—at once Reds, Greens, and Purples. Kogon’s account of the camp’s beginnings is accurate.15 On this well-known subject, Rassinier put together a totally mythical text to illustrate his theories about the camps.16 The first years were very hard for the Germans and Austrians who, at the time, made up the mass of the prisoners. The “fundamentalists” and the Jews particularly suffered. The observation that, in 1944, the camp had become a “sanitarium” was widespread among survivors at that time, and although surprising for those who had only recently arrived, was no doubt sincere.
The prisoners who were sent from Dora came from various countries. As far as the Frenchmen were concerned, Fernand Rousseau, a “14,000” from Buchenwald, had already been at Peenemünde and the Dora Tunnel, Marcel Gouju had been in the Ko Scherer, Raoul Giquel104 and Jean Voisin had come via Wieda (see chapter 11).
When the convoys arrived, Dr. Mengele espied, among those lined up for selection, a hunchbacked man about fifty years old. He was not alone; standing beside him was a tall, handsome boy of fifteen or sixteen. The latter, however, had a deformed right foot, which had been corrected by an apparatus made of a metal plate and an orthopedic, thick-soled shoe. They were father and son. Dr. Mengele thought he had discovered, in the person of the hunchback father and his lame son, a sovereign example to demonstrate his theory of the Jewish race’s degeneracy. He had them fall out of ranks immediately. Taking his notebook, he inscribed something in it, and entrusted the two wretches to the care of an SS trooper, who took them to number one crematorium.
However, amid all of these instances of state sanctioned and locally inspired persecution, it is also important to notice what was not happening. The German Jews were not being sent en masse to concentration camps. The first makeshift camps were created to hold the Nazis’ political opponents, not the Jews. In Prussia, thousands of Stormtroopers hired by Hermann Göring as Auxiliary Police arrested their former political adversaries and took them to improvised jails in disused factories and warehouses, even to basements in the houses of the Stormtroopers themselves. Those captured were often beaten and humiliated in an orgy of celebratory revenge. In March 1933 Wilhelm Murr, the Nazi state president of Württemberg, said memorably: ‘We don’t say: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. No, if someone knocks out one of our eyes, we will chop off his head, and if someone knocks out one of our teeth, we will smash in his jaw.’39
Six months earlier the commandant of Stutthof had been ordered by the SS economic and administrative department to ensure that no Jewish prisoner at the camp was left alive by the end of 1944. As a consequence gas chambers had been improvised in the camp. Starting in the early autumn of 1944, the gassing took place in a converted delousing room, but after a short time a new gassing installation was created in a railway wagon in a siding near the crematorium. The idea was that the prisoners to be gassed were first tricked into believing that they were boarding a train, rather than entering a gas chamber. To assist in that deception an SS man put on a railway uniform ‘complete with signal whistle’ and told the prisoners to hurry up and get on board as the train was about to leave for Danzig.35 But the capacity of these makeshift gas chambers was limited, and there were still many thousands of Jews left alive at Stutthof by the end of the year.
Once their hair had been cut, the women followed the men into the gas chambers. Just like death in the back of a gas van, death in the gas chambers of Bełżec was not quick. Reder remembers hearing the ‘moans’ and ‘screams’ of those trapped inside the gas chambers for up to fifteen minutes’.35
In addition to those questions must be added the one raised so poignantly and insistently by Bruno Bettelheim in his foreword to Nyiszli’s book: Why did the Jews allow themselves to be arrested, deported, and killed without resisting? And why, even more to the point, did only one of the fourteen Sonderkommando groups rise up in rebellion at the hour of their death? Knowing the length of their days, knowing they had liquidated their predecessors and that their successors would in like manner eliminate them, why did they not all “die as men, not as living corpses”? I think the answer to all those questions is best if not fully answered by Walter Laqueur’s reminder, in his foreword to Danuta Czech’s magisterial work, that we should bear in mind two very different elements of the Holocaust experience. Many if not most European Jews were integrated into the societies in which they lived. The Germans, after all, were the people of Bach and Beethoven, Kant, Goethe, and Schiller. How “bad” could such a people really be? Hitler, an aberration, would doubtless soon pass. Laqueur and others also remind us that Auschwitz, in addition to its other inmates, at one point housed thirteen thousand Russian prisoners of war, robust young men who, if anyone could, should have risen up and gone to their death fighting. Yet only ninety-two survived, and there was no Russian uprising. Very simply, in the unfair game of life then staged, all the camp’s victims—were they Jews, Gypsies, or POWs—were powerless before the masters’ whims and wishes.
One of the many curious aspects of Himmler’s circular was the statement that ‘experience shows that part-Gypsies play the greatest role in Gypsy criminality’. This strange assertion was based on Dr Ritter’s belief that the small minority of ‘racially pure’ Gypsies who carried on the traditional wandering life, travelling from village to village in horse-drawn caravans, were less dangerous than Gypsies who had decided to settle in one place and marry into the ‘Aryan’ German population. Though there was no reliable empirical evidence to support this proposition, Ritter maintained that the distinction was important. The theory was that some ‘pure Gypsies’ might be considered as a type of ‘Aryan’, since they had originated in the Indian sub-continent. But because large numbers of Gypsies had intermarried with non-Gypsies, they had ‘polluted their blood’ and so were especially dangerous. This convoluted logic led to the bizarre situation – implied in the circular on Combating the Gypsy Plague – that ‘pure-blood’ Gypsies were less of a problem to the Nazi state than ‘mixed-blood’ Gypsies. This state of affairs was precisely the reverse of the one in which the Jews found themselves, where the more Jewish an individual was perceived to be the more he or she was at risk. In practice, once the war began and the persecution of the Sinti and Roma escalated, the distinction between ‘pure’ and ‘non-pure’ Gypsies was to have little practical effect, but it nonetheless remains a valuable insight into the mentality of the perpetrators.
The documents gathered and published in extenso by Niethammer show the extent of the criticism leveled at the policies pursued in the camps. Overall the objection was to have agreed to collaborate with the SS to ensure the camps’ functioning. More precisely, it had to do, for example, with having engaged in what was known as “victim swapping”—der Opfertausch. This expression refers to the replacement of threatened prisoners, whether communists or not, by other prisoners, whether known or unknown. This had been the case, in particular, at Buchenwald (as it also had, moreover, at Dachau), during the establishment of lists of transports to the more feared Kommandos such as Dora or Laura, Langenstein, or Ohrdruf. The Soviet—or Soviet-inspired—prosecutors set themselves on the same terrain as such critics as Rassinier. But one wonders whether they were truly acting in good faith.
His first work, in 1949, went unnoticed. The second, in 1950, in which he attacked nominally and successively Brother Birin, Abbot Jean-Paul Renard, Abbot Robert Ploton, Louis Martin-Chauffier, David Rousset, and Eugen Kogon, was necessarily better known—particularly as it was accompanied by a preface by Albert Paraz, casting doubt in passing on Edmond Michelet, a former deportee to Dachau (who also became a minister in 1945), which caused a scandal. In this book the first reservations regarding the gas chambers appeared. But negationism would only develop later on in other writings. At the time, Rassinier’s key objective was to try and replace Rousset’s and Kogon’s schema regarding the camps with his own. He did not manage to do so, but the 1955 collection would be translated into German in 1960, into Spanish in 1961, and into Italian in 1966—as if it were an important reference book. Yet, both with regard to Buchenwald and Dora, it is a document to be treated with caution—to a far greater extent than the books of the authors Rassinier incriminates.
This team was a great help to a certain number of prisoners in difficulty, by giving them notes for the Schonung, switching them from one Kommando to another, assigning them to the camp, and so on. Mialet for instance was able to relax for a week by going, along with a Russian who was even more myopic than himself, to get glasses at Dora which, as it turned out, they never got. But these initiatives quickly reached their limit in a concentration camp dependent upon Kammler.
The German edition of the original text came out in 1996. It included a translation of Hackett’s introduction and notes. These two publications are most appreciated, because the failure to publish an important text is always frustrating for historians. They did not, however, really modify what was already known about the subject on the basis of Kogon’s book. Until his death in 1987, the latter remained the authority on the subject, along with Hermann Langbein, who was, as a young communist, a prisoner at Dachau, Auschwitz, and Neuengamme. Rousset’s works have lost none of their importance.
Outside the circle of the survivors, historical research long remained aloof from the subject of Nazi concentration camps. All that changed, albeit slowly, in the 1960s. In 1962 Eberhard Kolb’s study of Bergen-Belsen was the first German-language monograph about a single camp. A little later Enno Georg presented a study of the economic enterprises of the SS.4 With the evidence developed for the Auschwitz trial, Martin Broszat in 1965 published his fundamental and comprehensive study entitled Die nationalsozialistischen Konzentrationslager 1933–1945. It was followed in 1968 in France by Olga Wormser-Migot’s examination of the “système concentrationnaire Nazi.”5 The Studien zur Geschichte der Konzentrationslager. co-authored by Broszat, produced separate studies of six concentration camps, among them Mittelbau-Dora.6 With the publication in French of Joseph Billig’s study of the SS economy in the camps,7 the first phase of the historiographical debate in the West about the concentration camps ended. Except for Falk Pingel’s pioneering study of inmates under SS rule and a collective volume about some Natzweiler satellite camps in Württemberg, little followed these studies during the 1970s.8
New arrivals of prisoners took place throughout May and June 1944. First of all, on May 11 there were the 200 who left the Laura camp for Ellrich. Among the French prisoners—as shown in the preceding chapter—were Courtaud, Tauzin, and Inchauspé. At the same time a convoy of 600 prisoners coming from Buchenwald—and made up above all of Gypsies—arrived at Harzungen after a short stop at Dora. Then came the transports of Poles and Russians, amidst whom was the odd Frenchman, such as Serge Miller. At the end of May the Hungarian Jews arrived at Dora. Many of them were quickly sent to Ellrich.
Consequently, the war against the Jews continued, indeed it intensified. The capitulation of Italy, combined with the German occupation of the whole of France and the resulting changes in French security personnel, meant that the Germans were in a stronger position to enforce the deportation of Jews in a number of territories than they had been before. In France, the appointment of Joseph Darnand in December 1943 as General Secretary of the Police symbolized the desire of the Germans to move swiftly against French Jews.27 Darnand, leader of the Milice, the French paramilitary collaborators, had previously accepted the SS rank of Sturmbannführer (Major). This meant that by the end of 1943 a French SS man ran the French police force. There was now a sudden increase in the number of Jews deported from France – between 20 January and 17 August 1944 nearly 15,000 Jews were sent to Auschwitz.28 All pretence that the French security forces were somehow protecting French Jews was cast aside.
In 1943 and 1944, as noted in the preceding chapters, Auschwitz had a large labor pool to draw upon made up of Polish, Czech, and Russian as well as Hungarian Jewish and Gypsy prisoners who went from there to Dora via Buchenwald.
Another group concerned the convoys or columns, many of which found themselves at Sachsenhausen or Ravensbrück before setting off toward the Schwerin region. This group also concerns the Blankenburg prisoners. Three thousand prisoners are believed to have died out of a total of 11,500. This significant proportion can be explained by the high number of sick prisoners from Ellrich and Dora at the start of the evacuation. It also takes into account the length of the train journey and of the march as well as the deadly character of the Sachsenhausen evacuation.
Buchenwald and Dora compared
38 Götz Aly, ‘Final Solution’: Nazi Population Policy and the Murder of the European Jews, Arnold, 1999, p. 214.
53 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, p. 299.
On the last day of June, the commander of the Vught concentration camp visited Eindhoven; he was thought to be there to check the speed and efficiency with which the SOBU group could be transported to the camp. And on 1 July 1943, the German administrator informed them that the emigration plan was kaputt. Philips then advised the SOBU group to go into hiding as fast as they could. By 5 July, only eight of them were still at work.
17 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 176.
Such a situation would have been impossible without the approval not only of Förschner, the commander of Dora, but also of Pister, the commander of Buchenwald, both of whom knew about Kuntz’s previous activities. No doubt they thought it would be good to be able to count on a man known for his organizational abilities when an especially important camp was being set up. Later there was a great deal of speculation about the relationship between Förschner and Kuntz, but it was no doubt in vain. Each one found advantages in their de facto partnership.
But does all this mean that Hitler made a decision in autumn 1941 to exterminate the Jews? Is this when the Holocaust as we know it began? A number of new initiatives certainly came together at this time, including not only the decision to deport Jews from the Old Reich and Protectorate to the east, and the construction of killing installations at Chełmno and Bełżec in Poland, but also Hitler’s own comments in private that October about the Jews. Ominously, he quoted from the ‘extermination’ speech he had given in January 1939. ‘From the rostrum of the Reichstag,’ he said on 25 October 1941, ‘I prophesied to Jewry that, in the event of war’s proving inevitable, the Jew would disappear from Europe. That race of criminals has on its conscience the two million dead of the First World War, and now already hundreds of thousands more … It’s not a bad idea, by the way, that public rumour attributes to us a plan to exterminate the Jews.’105
31 Rudolf Hoess, Commandant of Auschwitz, Phoenix Press, 2001, pp. 88–9.
EARLY IN THE MORNING OF NOVEMBER 17th, 1944, an SS noncommissioned officer came into my room and informed me confidentially that, upon order of higher authority, it was henceforth forbidden to kill any more prisoners, by any means whatsoever, in the KZ. After having witnessed so many lies, I found it impossible to take him at his word, and expressed my doubts on the matter. But he reasserted forcefully that such were the instructions that had been received by radio only a short while before, both at the crematoriums and at the SS political kommando. We would soon see whether or not they were true. Personally, I feared it was only another trick.
I felt that I should rest, try to regain my strength. But, I kept asking myself, for what? On the one hand, illness racked my body; on the other, the bloody past froze my heart. My eyes had followed countless innocent souls to the gas chambers, witnessed the unbelievable spectacle of the funeral pyres. And I myself, carrying out the orders of a demented doctor, had dissected hundreds of bodies, so that a science based on false theories might benefit from the deaths of those millions of victims. I had cut the flesh of healthy young girls and prepared nourishment for the mad doctor’s bacteriological cultures. I had immersed the bodies of dwarfs and cripples in calcium chloride, or had them boiled so that the carefully prepared skeletons might safely reach the Third Reich’s museums to justify, for future generations, the destruction of an entire race. And even though all this was now past, I would still have to cope with it in my thoughts and dreams. I could never erase these memories from my mind.
46. Crematorium IV at Auschwitz (Archival Collection of the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum in Oświęcim)
Stangl claimed after the war that he had been shocked by the task that had been assigned to him, and that he hadn’t wanted to complete it. But eyewitnesses who saw him in the camp at the time tell a different story. ‘What was special about him was his arrogance,’ said Stanislaw Szmajzner, a Jewish survivor of the camp. ‘And his obvious pleasure in his work and his situation. None of the others – although they were, in different ways, so much worse than he – showed this to such an extent. He had this perpetual smile on his face … No, I don’t think it was a nervous smile; it was just that he was happy.’60 Erich Bauer, the SS man at Sobibór responsible for the working of the gas chambers, offered another perspective on Stangl, which also contradicts the notion that the commandant did his work unwillingly. ‘In the canteen at Sobibor I once overheard a conversation between Frenzel, Stangl and Wagner [all members of the SS at the camp]. They were discussing the number of victims in the extermination camps of Belzec, Treblinka [the last death camp to be built] and Sobibor and expressed their regret that Sobibor “came last” in the competition.’61
As soon as he had made quite certain, in viso, that the 200 prisoners had been duly executed, Dr. Klein left the crematorium. There was nothing contradictory about the order of November 17th forbidding the practice of violent death, and today’s slaughter. On the contrary, all the SS had just done was to carry out the sentences tendered by a duly constituted court-martial.
25. Bailly, Un lycéen à Buchenwald, p. 120.
29. Cf. Walter Naasner, Neue Machtzentren in der deutschen Kriegswirtschaft 1942–1945: Die Wirtschaftsorganisation der SS, das Amt des Generalbevollmächtigten für den Arbeitseinsatz und das Reichsministerium für Bewaffnung und Munition/Reichsministerium für Rüstung und Kriegsproduktion im nationalsozialistischen Herrschaftssystem, Schriften des Bundesarchivs, 45 (Boppard a. Rhein, 1994); Jan Erik Schulte, Zwangsarbeit und Vernichtung: Das Wirtschaftsimperium der SS. Oswald Pohl und das SS-Wirtschafts-Verwaltungshauptamt 1933–1945 (Paderborn, 2001); Michael Thad Allen, The Business of Genocide: The SS, Slave Labor, and the Concentration Camps (Chapel Hill, 2002). Allen’s study deserves special mention because he was the first to do research in the voluminous Mittelwerk GmbH administration files in the Bundesarchiv Berlin (Bestand R 121, Industriebeteiligungsgesellschaft).
Coming on top of the crucifix debacle, Bishop von Galen’s sermon condemning the euthanasia killings was especially problematic for Hitler. Though he wanted to see Galen punished, he felt he could not act against him without stirring up discontent among his own supporters who were also Christians. Moreover, the transportation across Germany of disabled patients to be murdered had now become dangerously high profile.
39 Sybille Steinbacher, ‘In the Shadow of Auschwitz: The Murder of the Jews of East Upper Silesia’, in Ulrich Herbert (ed.), National Socialist Extermination Policies: Contemporary German Perspectives and Controversies, Berghahn Books, 2000, pp. 276–305, here p. 284.
I, THE UNDERSIGNED, DR. MIKLOS Nyiszli, physician, former prisoner of the German concentration camps, declare that this work, which relates the darkest days in the history of mankind, was drawn up by me in strict accordance with reality, and without the slightest exaggeration, in my capacity as an eyewitness and involuntary participant in the work of the Auschwitz crematoriums, into whose fires millions of fathers, mothers and children disappeared.
The decisions taken at Wannsee had to be acted on by different departments within the government of the Reich, and so it was necessary for them to be recorded. Oral commands alone would never have sufficed. A copy of the minutes, taken by Adolf Eichmann, survived the war, and though they were written in deliberately euphemistic language, they nonetheless offer an insight into the thinking of senior figures involved in the implementation of the Final Solution.
44. Staff at Auschwitz relax. Oskar Groening, a former member of the SS at Auschwitz, later remarked that working at the camp ‘led to friendships which I’m still saying today I like to think back on with joy’.
We know that the young Ukrainians, organized into groups of looters, were preying on others during the first few months at Dora, inside the tunnel as well as outside. Kogon evokes those that remained at Buchenwald as follows:6 “Whereas the prisoners of war formed well-disciplined teams who were very skillful, as well as fair, in protecting their collective interests, the mass of Ukrainians made up a crew that is difficult to describe. In the beginning, they were so favored by their German comrades that it was almost impossible to make the slightest complaint against a ‘Russian.’ Soon, however, due to their insolence, laziness and the lack of camaraderie among many of them, the situation was rapidly reversed, and they could no longer hope to obtain important positions.” Other authors show the perplexity of the German communists in the face of this unforeseen side of the new “homo sovieticus.”
11. Jean Bezaut, Oranienburg, Sachsenhausen (Hérault-Éditions, 1989), pp. 25–26.
The whole story of obligatory labor was of course an infamous lie, merely a pretext to carry out the liquidation without interruption and to recoup some sorely needed instruments, scarce tools and winter clothing needed by the German populace. Twenty thousand men, fully capable of working and in the full flush of their youth, died in the gas chambers and were incinerated in the crematory ovens. It took 48 hours to exterminate them all. For several days afterwards, silence again reigned in the crematorium.
“I tried to tell him about our living conditions, but he turned a deaf ear. Dr. Simon pretended not to know what was happening at Dora.”18 He took part in the May 6, 1944, meeting with Rickhey, like von Braun and Steinhoff, in his HAP 11 capacity. Later on, von Braun reported in a letter to Sawatzski, dated August 15, 1944, that he “went to see capable prisoners at Buchenwald [ . . . ] in the company of Dr. Simon.” One has the impression that, at least at a certain level, recruitment of prisoners for the factory was carried out by Peenemünde engineers who had been transferred to Mittelwerk and were working with Dr. Simon.19
At first, I thought Sugihara had spied for the Poles for money – a welcome supplement to his small salary as Japanese consul in Kaunas. But I had no evidence, and could find no mention of payment in any Polish archives. Another flaw in my theory was that Sugihara had never before been motivated by money, personal gain, or professional ambition. His criteria were almost always humanitarian, although he undeniably had a certain thirst for adventure. He enjoyed novel experiences and chance encounters that brought him new insights. Sugihara had an ever-inquiring mind.
That night we were given the striped jerkin of prisoners and taken by the mountain path to the Mauthausen railway station. There we were loaded into the inevitable boxcars, 7,000 souls in all, and sent to the Melk an der Donau concentration camp. It was only a short journey and, for a change, fairly comfortable, that is, we were not stacked in like sardines but had room enough to sit on the floor. Three hours after we had climbed into the cars we climbed down again.
26 Dr Miklós Nyiszli, Auschwitz: A Doctor’s Eyewitness Account, Penguin, 2012, p. 24.
33. The Buchenwald Report, pp. 323–24.
Understandably, Chamberlain and Hitler had a great deal in common. When they met in 1923 Chamberlain said that as a result of the encounter ‘the condition of his soul’ had been transformed ‘at one fell swoop’.23 In return the Nazis adopted Chamberlain as one of their own. His seventieth birthday in September 1925 received huge coverage in the Nazi paper the Völkischer Beobachter, and Foundations of the Nineteenth Century became a revered text.
At the Essen trial there was a great deal of speculation about the reality of the transmitter built at the Revier by the Czech Jan Chaloupka (or Halupka), a radio mechanic, who had already assembled a receiver. Langbein75 says: “We don’t know whether or not the radio was used before its components, along with those of the receiver, had to be destroyed in the crematorium. The German court, which questioned the witnesses it was able to contact on this point in Essen in 1968, concluded that it was impossible to get to the bottom of the question concerning the existence and operation of a transmitter.”
19 Henry Friedlander, The Origins of Nazi Genocide: From Euthanasia to the Final Solution, University of North Carolina Press, 1995, p. 62.
The association’s first president, until the time of his death in 1960, was Pierre Ségelle. A doctor, he had treated his fellow prisoners in the Ellrich Revier, and at Schwerin following the evacuation of Sachsenhausen. After his return he collaborated on researching the illnesses of deportees and the possible causes of these illnesses.
Approaching his bed, I was moved and chagrined to see that the patient was none other than the “Captain.” That was what everyone called him, for no one knew what his real name was. A native of Athens, he had been a captain in the regular army and tutor to the children of the royal family of Greece. He was a polite, intelligent man, with three years of KZ behind him. His wife and children had been sent to the gas chamber as soon as they had arrived. Now, having lost consciousness, he was sleeping peacefully. He had probably taken the sleeping tablets several hours earlier, and yet I found that, for the moment at least, he was in no real danger. The men of the Sonderkommando grouped around his bed asked me softly, and with resignation, “to let the captain go.”
I walk over the burial ground with Edith on my arm. Rob, overwhelmed by all the information about the genocide, is sitting on a bench, shaking his head, under the only tree in this windy field.
23 Ioanid, Holocaust in Romania, p. 81; Kindle edition, location 1884–90.
From the day the camp opened a variety of techniques were used to torment the prisoners. Punishments were not just cruel – a common one was to tie a prisoner’s hands behind his back and then suspend him by his wrists from a pole – but often arbitrary. Every inmate knew that they were at permanent risk of a beating, or worse, and there was little they could do to prevent it. To exacerbate all of this suffering, the Germans insisted that life be conducted at speed. The sight of all the prisoners scurrying around the camp reminded August Kowalczyk, who was sent to Auschwitz at the end of 1940, of ‘an anthill that someone had kicked. The anthill opens and then you see the ants running in all directions.’68
The crematorium was not a priority at Dora. As has already been noted, until March 1944 corpses were transported to Buchenwald for incineration. A temporary crematorium was then built, which Sadron37 has described: “It was a single oven, inside a miserable shed made of planks, surmounted by a long, sheet-metal pipe topped by a cone-shaped cap. It looked like a hovel in a slum. It was quite visible in the center of the camp. Day and night smoke came out of the pipe. First, when the oven was still empty, a curtain of warm air escaped, rippling transparently. Then, suddenly, black, greasy smoke poured out. The smell of burnt flesh seeped into our nostrils; we never could get used to it. After a few minutes, the smoke became bluish and transparent, like cigarette smoke. A body had been consumed.”
The right-hand column had not moved. Dr. Mengele ordered all doctors to step forward; he then approached the new group, composed of some fifty doctors, and asked those who had studied in a German university, who had a thorough knowledge of pathology and had practiced forensic medicine, to step forward.
It was to the foundry that all the gold teeth and bridgework collected in the four crematoriums were brought, all the jewelry and gold coins, the precious stones and platinum objects, the watches, the gold cigarette cases and any other precious metal found in the trunks, the suitcases, the clothes, or on the bodies of the dead. Three goldsmiths were employed here. First they disinfected the jewelry, then sorted and classified it. They removed the precious stones and sent the settings to the foundry. The gold teeth and jewelry supplied each day by the four crematoriums produced, once smelted, between 65 and 75 pounds of pure gold.
These four buildings at Auschwitz Birkenau – numbered Crematoria II to V, since Crematorium I still existed in Auschwitz main camp – represented a new stage in the evolution of the Holocaust. In part this was because they were solid and looked from the outside like factories. By contrast, the Reinhard death camps of Bełżec, Sobibór and Treblinka were all temporary places, and once their murderous work was completed, they would be destroyed. The new red-brick crematoria/gas-chamber buildings at Auschwitz, however, were an integral part of a growing SS presence in Upper Silesia. They were at the centre of a vast network of nearly thirty Auschwitz sub-camps which provided forced labour for a range of industrial operations, including cement works, armaments factories and – biggest of all – the IG Farben chemical plant at Monowitz in the suburbs of Auschwitz town. The crematoria/gas chambers of Birkenau were – in essence – the physical manifestation of the idea of extermination through labour. Once Jewish workers at Monowitz, for example, could no longer function as required, they were transported the short distance to Birkenau for annihilation. These buildings were something more than a means of killing the men, women and children the Nazis hated and feared; they symbolized a system in which only the productive deserved to live. They were inhumanity memorialized in brick.
We had been working for about 20 minutes when a tremendous explosion rocked the walls. In the echoing silence, the steady staccato of machine gun fire reached our ears. Peering through the green mosquito netting that covered the main window, I saw the red-tiled roof and supporting beams of number three crematorium blow off, followed by an immense spiral of flame and black smoke. No more than a minute later, machine gun fire broke out just in front of the dissecting room door. We had no idea what had happened. Our plans called for tonight. Two possibilities occurred to me: either someone had betrayed us, thus enabling the SS to step in and break up the planned escape, or else a considerable force of partisans had attacked the camp. The dismal wail of sirens began in both Auschwitz I and Auschwitz II. The explosions grew louder and louder, and the rattle of submachine guns more and more persistent. Then we could hear the harsher staccato of field machine guns. I had already made up my mind what to do. Whether it was a question of treason or of a partisan attack, it seemed best for the moment to remain in the dissecting room and see how the situation evolved. From the window I saw 80 to 100 trucks arriving. The first one pulled up in front of our crematorium. Half a company jumped out and formed up in battle formation in front of the barbed wire fences.
In the spring of 1943, before even the bombing of Peenemünde, resorting to the concentration camp labor force appeared to be the only way to confront the difficulties that had arisen. From that moment on everyone was aware of what was at stake and necessarily in agreement: Dornberger, Rudolph and von Braun, Speer, Degenkolb and Sawatzki, and Kammler. In the end, Neu had no choice but to follow.
THE EVACUATION OF STUTTHOF. Three principal concentration camps—along with their camp annexes and Kommandos—were then threatened by Soviet troops: Stutthof, Auschwitz, and Gross Rosen.
The itineraries of the two columns from Schönebeck19 starting from Barby are known. The first one went all the way to Oranienburg via Brandenburg. It is possible that this itinerary was ultimately confused with the one mentioned by Dutillieux. In any case, as will be seen in the next chapter, all the new arrivals were fated to leave Sachsenhausen quickly for a new evacuation to Schwerin. The second itinerary starting from Barby began farther south and went toward Berlin. It turned north at Potsdam, through Nauen and Fehrbellin, then northwest to Neustadt-Glewe, near Wöbbelin. The Helmstedt convoy in which David Rousset was traveling arrived at Wöbbelin as well as the small Kommando from Kelbra after crossing the Altmark and following an unspecified route. One way or another, those who were sent toward the northeast to flee the American forces arriving at the Elbe were sent on to the northwest to flee from the Soviets as they took over Berlin.
Men were separated from women. The men were told to undress before they were forced straight through the ‘tube’ to the gas chambers. The women were taken to a barracks where their hair was cut. The Germans used the women’s hair after their deaths in a variety of industrial processes – for example, in the making of felt. It was as their heads were shaved, says Reder, that the women realized that they were to die, and ‘there were laments and shrieks.’
64 Rees, Auschwitz, pp. 210–11.
THE SONDERKOMMANDO—THIRTEENTH in the history of the crematoriums—had thus been annihilated. Now our days slipped by in utter silence and boredom. At loose ends, we wandered among the cold, forbidding walls. The ringing of my footsteps in the silence was painful to my ears. We were given no orders, had nothing to do. At night we lay in bed, unable to sleep. Only four of us were left in the building. The thirty men who worked in the crematorium were not members of the Sonderkommando, but were quartered in the KZ itself and came here every day only to burn the bodies of those who had died in the hospital.
Without letting up on their fire, the SS moved in towards the crematorium entrance. It was no easy job, for the Poles put up a stout defense. Their cascade of bottles succeeded in keeping the SS at a respectful distance. Just then, a tremendous explosion rocked the area, felling those attackers who had moved in close to the building. The crematorium roof blew off, sending a shower of beams and shingles flying in all directions, while smoke and flames billowed skyward. Four drums of gasoline had exploded, reducing the building to rubble and burying the Sonderkommando men inside. A few of those who escaped with their lives tried to carry on the fight, but the SS machine guns made short work of them. Others, wounded but still able to walk, headed towards the door with their hands up, but another burst tumbled them as well. They expected what they got, but fire was gutting the building and they chose the easier death. At the same time, the hundred Hungarians were hastily returned to the courtyard and executed on the spot.
“In short, I was in charge of keeping the Block’s ‘accounts.’ I was given a Blockbuch for this purpose, in which the prisoners’ family names, first names, identity numbers and nationalities were written, along with the Kommando to which they were assigned. When I arrived, the Appellbuch listed 239 occupants. The number varied, however, because whenever anyone changed Kommandos, he automatically went to a different Block. There were also hospitalized prisoners who were required to show a paper with their identity number and date of release as soon as they left the Revier. When only the paper arrived, bearing a Saint-Andrew’s cross, it meant that the prisoner had been released via the crematorium. All I had to do was put a similar cross in the Blockbuch, along with the date, and reduce the unit’s headcount.
ORANIENBURG AND SACHSENHAUSEN. Oranienburg is a city in the northern suburbs of Berlin in what is now Brandenburg state. It is located in a wooded region where between 1933 and 1945 the SS was able to broaden its hold to a considerable extent. The Sachsenhausen concentration camp, named after part of Oranienburg, was an important component of the complex that was gradually built up and can be described as it was in early 1945.
The history of the Dora concentration camp begins on August 28, 1943, with the arrival of the first convoy of prisoners from the Buchenwald camp. Over the course of the previous year the military situation in Germany had considerably worsened, and Dora’s beginnings were in many respects conditioned by this new situation.
He took part in the war in 1940 as part of the railway corps and was then transferred to Brive. He joined the Resistance and was arrested, after being denounced in January 1943 with a variety of fellow Resistance fighters, including his eldest son. The group was transferred to Compiègne, then to Sachsenhausen. From there, with his son, he went into the Staaken Kommando that built the Falkensee camp, then on to Falkensee. On September 11, 1943, he was brought back to Oranienburg for interrogations, in the wake of further arrests in France. He made it out but was sent to Dora, via Buchenwald, with a group of miners, as mentioned above. He had several advantages. He had spent three years in prisoners’ camps in Germany from 1914 to 1917. He spoke German. He was an experienced manual laborer in different fields. He was a seasoned activist. At Staaken and then at Falkensee he got on with his block leader, a German communist. In Dora he skillfully maneuvered the Kapo and the Meister. Very proud of his military past, he particularly supported the young, particularly those from the officers’ school of Saint-Cyr.
The most recent German historical study on Dora is Joachim Neander’s thesis, Das Konzentrationslager Mittelbau. Neander defended it in Bremen on April 30, 1997, and published it in November of that year. It had to do with the Mittelbau concentration camp complex, and more particularly with the period of the evacuations.
20 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, pp. 221–2.
Farther to the north the Soviets crossed the Oder on April 18 between Stettin and Schwedt to conquer western Pomerania and Mecklenburg. The French women prisoners left Ravensbrück for Sweden on April 23. The Ravensbrück camp was evacuated starting on April 26. On May 3 the Soviets coming from the east and the Americans who had crossed the lower Elbe joined up in the region of Parchim. It was then that the prisoners on the march from Sachsenhausen and Ravensbrück were liberated.
14 Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2010, pp. 151–2.
After finishing in number two, I visited number three and number four crematoriums. In number three, besides the Greek and Polish members who made up the majority of the kommando, I noticed that there were already about a hundred Hungarian deportees. In number four the kommando consisted largely of Poles and Frenchmen.
I began to see what had happened. The Sonderkommando men had taken possession of number one crematorium and, from every window and door, were spraying the SS troops with bullets and grenades. Their defense seemed effective, for I saw several soldiers drop, either dead or wounded. Seeing this, the besiegers decided to resort to more drastic methods. They brought up 50 well-trained police dogs and unleashed them on the Sonderkommando entrenched behind the walls of number one. But for some strange reason these dogs, usually so ferocious and obedient, refused to budge: ears back, tails between their legs, they took shelter behind their SS masters. Perhaps it was because the dogs had been trained to deal with prisoners wearing striped burlap, whereas the Sonderkommando never wore this “uniform.” Or perhaps, too long used to dealing with weakened, unarmed prisoners, they were momentarily frightened by the smell of powder and scorched flesh, the noise and confusion of a pitched battle. In any case, the SS soon realized their mistake and, without letting up on their fire, began to haul some howitzers into position.
The SS experimented by locking selected prisoners in the basement of Block 11 in Auschwitz. Block 11 was a prison within a prison, the most feared building in the camp, the place where the SS interrogated and tortured prisoners. But just as initial attempts to kill with carbon monoxide exhaust had not been as effective as the Nazis would have liked, so Fritzsch’s first attempt to murder with Zyklon B was not – from his point of view – completely successful.
Or so they had thought. For four or five days they had lived in these cars, watching the dead pile up around them, till at last they had reached the Jewish ramp of the Auschwitz concentration camp.
INCINERATION AT BUCHENWALD. There are few testimonies on the transport of the corpses to Buchenwald. It was Fliecx who described what happened: “From the window of the Schonung, the small carriages could be seen coming from down below, at the Tunnel exit, loaded with the dead. [. . .] Not far from us, the convoy stopped and the corpses were transported into a small shed close to the Revier. There they were kept up to three days until the truck came to take them to Buchenwald. There were about a hundred each time. . . .” (These were not only the dead from the tunnel, but those from the Revier and the Schonung.)32
They brought me up to date on their sad experiences of the previous three months: the dreaded selections, from which they had till now escaped, but the very thought of which made them tremble with fear, living as they did in the shadow of the crematorium chimneys. Dressed in rags, they suffered from cold and perpetual hunger. It rained in their barracks and their clothes never dried out completely. The food was uneatable and, what was worse, they were unable to sleep. The place assigned to them was meant to hold seven people: twelve were stacked in there. Women whose social rank back home was fairly high pushed and shoved each other in order to give themselves a few inches more space, thus hoping to sleep a little better, even it it was at the expense of their companions. Everybody here had lost her former personality. Friends or strangers, each was concerned only about her own well-being, unwilling to make the slightest concession. My daughter told me that she slept on the concrete floor, since nobody would make a place for her on the bunk where her mother slept. My wife asked me about my work. I explained to her that I was Dr. Mengele’s assistant, and as such a member of the Sonderkommando. After three months of KZ life they too had learned that the Sonder was the kommando of the living dead. Both looked at me aghast. I reassured them as best I could and promised to return the following day.
20 Figures from the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, http://www.ushmm.org/learn/students/learning-materials-and-resources/mentally-and-physically-handicapped-victims-of-the-nazi-era/forced-sterilization.
Right from the beginning of January work started up again, but the lack of concentration camp manpower was ever more obvious. It was no longer possible to call upon Buchenwald, upon which Ellrich, as will soon be shown, no longer depended. In any case, Buchenwald no longer received convoys of new deportees and had to draw upon the camp population to provide prisoners for the dreadful Ohrdruf Kommando. Ever more precarious, the local labor force had to suffice. Four initiatives were taken in the course of the first quarter of 1945—a particularly harsh winter quarter. In January, as seen above, a delivery of striped uniforms made it possible to reclothe the Ohne Kleider at Ellrich and to send them back out onto the work sites. In December 1944 a Kommando 32 was set up at Dora, which was sent to work on the Niedersachswerfen work sites. Pierre Maho92 was part of that Kommando, which was ultimately established in the unoccupied buildings of the Boelcke Kaserne at Nordhausen.
9 Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2010, p. 92.
The news of my arrival had spread like wildfire throughout the crematorium. Both the SS personnel assigned here and the Sonderkommando came to call on me. The door was first opened by an SS noncom. Two extremely tall, militant looking Schaarführer entered. I knew that the attitude I then assumed would determine their conduct towards me in the future. I recalled Dr. Mengele’s order: I was responsible only to him. Consequently I considered this visit merely as a private act of courtesy, and remained seated instead of rising and standing at attention. I greeted them and asked them to sit down.
He was helped by Georges Virondeau81 in exceptional circumstances. The latter, who remained at Buchenwald until June 1944, was admitted into the Ell-rich Revier where he found his network leader, Dr. Dubois (known as “Teddy”). By chance Dubois spoke of Virondeau to Captain Schneeman, mentioning to him that he did magic tricks, which was of personal interest to Schneeman. He then hired Virondeau as Kalfaktor in the soldiers’ Revier, located five hundred yards outside the camp.
Such executions in extremis of political adversaries were not at that time exceptional. On April 4, Admiral Canaris and the Protestant minister Bonhoeffer were hanged at Flossenbürg. On April 19, General Delestraint was executed at Dachau. Instructions came from Berlin, along with the lists—like that from Buchenwald—which included numerous communist prisoners but also a Catholic like Kogon.33 This ultimate ferocity of the Nazi regime was coherent with its scorched-earth policy.
The two German civilians having played an important role when the tunnel was undergoing modification work were also absent: they were, above all, Sawatzki—who had died in May 1945 under unknown circumstances—and Rudolph, who had left for the United States with his colleagues from Peenemünde, as the role he had played prior to the transfer of the prisoners from Buchenwald to Peenemünde was unknown. It was not, however, impossible to have Germans who had left Germany in the framework of Overcast brought back to stand trial. This is what happened to Rickhey—but he was not involved in what went on in the first months of the tunnel.
I made a sign for my companions to withdraw. I was going to attempt something I knew without saying was doomed to failure. Three months in the same camp and in the same milieu had created, in spite of everything, a certain intimacy between us. Besides, the Germans generally appreciate capable people, and, as long as they need them, respect them to a certain extent, even in the KZ. Such was the case for cobblers, tailors, joiners and locksmiths. From our numerous contacts, I had been able to ascertain that Mussfeld had a high esteem for the medical expert’s professional qualities. He knew that my superior was Dr. Mengele, the KZ’s most dreaded figure, who, goaded by racial pride, took himself to be one of the most important representatives of German medical science. He considered the dispatch of hundreds of thousands of Jews to the gas chambers as a patriotic duty. The work carried on in the dissecting room was for the furtherance of German medical science. As Dr. Mengele’s pathological expert, I also had a hand in this progress, and therein lay the explanation for a certain form of respect that Mussfeld paid me. He often came to see me in the dissecting room, and we conversed on politics, the military situation and various other subjects. It appeared that his respect also arose from the fact that he considered the dissection of bodies and his bloody job of killing to be allied activities. He was the commandant and ace shot of number one crematorium. Three other SS acted as his lieutenants. Together they carried out the “liquidation” by a bullet in the back of the neck. This type of death was reserved for those who had been chosen in the camp, or else sent from another on their way to a so-called “rest camp.” When there were merely 500 or less, they were killed by a bullet in the back of the neck, for the large factory of gas chambers was reserved for the annihilation of more important numbers. As much gas was needed to kill 500 as to kill 3,000. Nor was it worthwhile to call out the Red Cross truck to bring the canisters and gas butchers for such a trifling number of victims. Nor was it worth the trouble of having a truck come to collect the clothes, which were scarcely more than rags anyway. Such were the factors which determined whether a group would die by gas or by a bullet in the back of the neck.
THE OVERALL DEATH TOLL OF DORA-MITTELBAU. Based on the figures just presented, an overall death toll can be quickly estimated. For the whole concentration camp complex, which finally reached about 40,000 prisoners, the loss of human life during a period of slightly more than twenty months amounted to some 26,500 victims—15,500 in the camp and the “transports” and 11,000 at the time of the evacuations.
65 Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2012, p. 106.
EVACUATION PROCEDURES. The most important common feature was the total predominance of railway transport. Raul Hilberg has clearly demonstrated the close cooperation between the SS and the Reichsbahn regarding the transport of Jews to Auschwitz and the death camps. As far as transporting “travelers” was concerned, the SS were regular, influential customers of the German railways who duly paid their fares. They were entitled to requisitions of equipment and personnel until the very end, which will be discussed later.
GEORG RICKHEY. Engineer, general director of the Mittelwerk limited company. Born 1898. Entered Nazi Party in 1931. Beginning in October 1942, occupied a senior position in the Ministry for Armaments and Munitions while also business manager for the DEMAG vehicle manufacturing works in Berlin-Falkensee. In autumn 1943 took over the firm that tested the V-2 rocket engines. In April 1944 named general director of the rocket works in the Mittelwerk limited company, in which role he was also responsible for the use of concentration camp prisoners as forced labor. Arrested by the U.S. army in May 1945, tried by a military court in 1947, but acquitted after placing the blame on the (already dead) V-2 production chief Albin Sawatzki. Died 1966.
In spite of all this activity, no full-length history of the Mittelbau-Dora camp system has ever been published in the English language—until now. This fact alone would make the book you hold in your hand an event. But what makes it particularly unique is that it is the product of a Dora survivor and former slave laborer on the V2 production line who also has historical training. In the foreword to the German translation of this book, Eberhard Jäckel, the eminent historian, has compared André Sellier to Eugen Kogon. A former Buchenwald prisoner, Kogon launched the study of the Nazi concentration camps in 1946 with his book Der SS Staat, which appeared in English as Theory and Practice of Hell. Like Kogon, Sellier examines the history of his camp with engagement but also with scholarly detachment, skillfully analyzing all the sources available to him. A History of the Dora Camp is not a memoir, yet Sellier is able to use his memories and those of his fellow survivors to supplement the somewhat meager written record. The extensive use of the memoir files of the Dora-Ellrich and Buchenwald-Dora survivor associations in France, supplemented by interviews and correspondence with French, Belgian, Czech, and Slovenian prisoners, gives the present book a powerful, personal dimension which does not undermine its restrained tone.
In France after the war, associations were created made up of former deportees who had been in the same camps or same Kommandos. With regard to Dora, one association includes former prisoners from Dora, Ellrich, and Harzungen as well as the Kommandos attached to them in the framework of Mittelbau.1 Another association, that of Buchenwald-Dora,2 is made up of former prisoners of Buchenwald and of the Kommandos that depended on Buchenwald—which was the case with Dora in its early days. Certain fellow prisoners are members of both associations, which, as far as the writing of this book was concerned, were never in competition with one another.
ALBIN SAWATZKI. Engineer, V-2 production chief. Born 1909. Entered Nazi Party in 1933. In 1943 became director of the Henschel Works in Kassel, which produced Tiger tanks; he also became head of the “serial production” working committee under Special Committee A4. That year Albert Speer put him in charge of production; from September he was present in the camp. In February 1944 he became director of the planning department for Mittelwerk. Died May 1, 1945, as a result of injuries inflicted by former concentration camp prisoners.
But in saving his comrades Sasha had left the rest of this group of forty or so escapees in disarray. Small factions formed and argued with others. Without leadership some of the stronger wanted to discard the weaker. Eventually, Toivi and two others detached themselves from the main group and made for his hometown of Izbica. With winter approaching, they were desperate to find shelter. When they eventually reached Izbica, Toivi approached one villager, who he knew had venerated his father, and begged her to hide them. She refused, fearing German retribution. She said that her husband had been taken to Auschwitz and she wanted to save her son. ‘By the terror etched in her face,’ wrote Toivi, ‘I could clearly see we represented a deadly plague, the Black Death of the twentieth century.’42
24. Otakar Litomisky, Les Mémoires du prisonnier 113.359. This number corresponds to an Auschwitz identity number, tattooed on the forearm.
When Robert Antelme got down from the freight car he was in very poor condition. He was recognized in early May by a French mission visiting Dachau, which included François Mitterrand, who was the leader of Antelme’s Resistance group. A veritable expedition was mounted by Dionys Mascolo and Georges Beauchamp on May 8, 1945, to hustle him out of Dachau despite the quarantine in force due to typhus.43 Thus he was saved, as was young Michel Vidal, another new arrival at Buchenwald, through another example of devotion.
As a matter of fact, such action would not have been without precedent. A part of the eleventh Sonderkommando had been transferred from the D quarter to Barracks 13, a restricted area, and informed that, upon orders from above, the group would no longer live in the crematoriums, but henceforth in this barracks. They would continue to work at the ovens, however, going in two separate groups from the barracks to the crematorium. That same evening they had been taken to the D quarter for a bath and a change of clothing. After the bath they had been pushed into a neighboring room to get disinfected clothes. This room was a real disinfecting chamber, and as such could be hermetically sealed. Normally, that was where the lice-filled clothes collected in the camp were disinfected. Four hundred men from the Sonderkommando were liquidated in this manner. From there, trucks took their bodies to the funeral pyre.
Almost all of the Jews from the Warsaw ghetto were sent to the death camp at Treblinka. This, the last specialized death camp to be constructed, was the largest and most deadly.16 Around 850,000 people – some estimates say over 900,000 – were murdered here between summer 1942 and autumn 1943. And within that timeframe, the most murderous period was from the end of July until the end of August 1942 when an estimated 312,500 people were killed – around a quarter of a million of them from the Warsaw ghetto.17 The SS achieved this appalling killing record in part because Treblinka had been built with a railway spur leading directly into the camp. This was of great assistance to the SS, who were able to speed up the unloading of the Jews and their transportation to the gas chambers. As for the internal layout of the camp, it was similar to Bełżec and Sobibór. There was an arrival area and an extermination area containing the gas chambers, with the two connected via a narrow pathway or ‘tube’, plus separate sections for the guards’ and Sonderkommandos’ accommodation.
The Third Reich did not last long after the removal of its architect, and in the early hours of 7 May, at Reims in France, Alfred Jodl, Chief of the Wehrmacht Operations Staff, signed the unconditional surrender of German armed forces in the presence of the British and Americans. The next day, in Berlin, Field Marshal Keitel surrendered on behalf of Germany to the Soviets. As for Himmler, he had ordered that no prisoners at Dachau and Flossenbürg concentration camps should be taken alive when the Allies arrived. As a result, even in the last hours of the Third Reich, new death marches were formed and thousands more lost their lives. One estimate is that out of 714,000 inmates alive in concentration camps at the start of 1945, between 240,000 and 360,000 died before Germany capitulated.66 As for Himmler, he survived the end of Nazism by only a matter of days. On 23 May he committed suicide by biting into a poison capsule, after his British captors had discovered that he was not Sergeant Heinrich Hitzinger as he pretended to be, but Heinrich Himmler, former Reichsführer of the SS and one of the world’s most notorious war criminals.
Similarly, at Auschwitz in the autumn of 1941, SS personnel were using their ‘best judgment’ to upgrade the improvised methods of killing they had used so far. As they discussed plans for a new crematorium to be built at the camp they decided on a series of small but significant changes that would allow the building to be turned into a killing factory. Some time between October 1941 and January 1942, the ventilation outlets in the smaller of the two mortuaries in the semi-basement of the building were set back into the concrete of the wall and the fans altered so that they could expel air quickly. The only plausible explanation for these changes in the plans was that this mortuary would now become a gas chamber, with the ducts recessed so that the dying could not wrench them from the wall, and the ventilation system altered so as to allow the poisonous gas to be expelled after the murders had taken place.113 But it is all but impossible to see how the creation of this one gas chamber at Auschwitz could have been part of a master plan already in existence to murder all the Jews of Europe. Instead, this was surely another example of a local initiative, motivated by the knowledge that gassing with Zyklon B was already taking place in the existing crematorium of the main camp. It would thus make sense, from the perspective of the SS at Auschwitz, to ensure that this new crematorium was also capable of performing the same function.
But for Oskar Groening, a member of the Auschwitz SS garrison, what was happening in the camp made at least a kind of sense. In 1943 he was twenty-two years old, and worked in the economic department of the camp, counting the money stolen from the arriving Jews. A committed nationalist, he had absorbed the key principles of Nazism: ‘We were convinced by our world-view that there was a great conspiracy of Jewishness against us, and that thought was expressed in Auschwitz – that it must be avoided, what happened in the First World War must be avoided, namely that the Jews put us into misery. The enemies who are within Germany are being killed – exterminated if necessary. And between these two fights, openly at the front line and then on the home front, there’s absolutely no difference – so we exterminated nothing but enemies.’18
Just as Chełmno was created to murder the ‘unproductive’ Jews from the Łódź ghetto, so Bełżec was created to murder the ‘unproductive’ Jews from the Lublin area, stretching as far as Kraków in the west and Lwów in the south-east. By March 1942 the camp was ready to start killing. Jews were deported from both Lublin and Lwów to Bełżec that month and by the middle of April around 45,000 Jews had been murdered in the gas chambers of the camp and their bodies buried near by.
At the same time as the Sinti and Roma suffered in Auschwitz, Hitler was digesting what for him was dispiriting – almost disastrous – news on the military front. The surrender of the Sixth Army at Stalingrad had been bad enough for the Germans at the start of 1943, but the series of defeats that followed made matters even worse. By mid-May that year the Wehrmacht had lost their campaign in North Africa, and Hitler – according to Goebbels – feared that the defeat of the Germans at Tunis might ‘be on the scale of Stalingrad’.47 That same month Grand Admiral Dönitz ordered U-boat action in the north Atlantic to stop – Allied counter-measures had made it almost impossible for the U-boats to wage war successfully.
QUARANTINE. Some of the Dora prisoners, as will be seen, spent various lengths of time at Buchenwald before being registered on a “transport” list for Dora. They thus experienced Dora at different times. But for most of the others, their only experience of Buchenwald was the “quarantine”—and it should be pointed out what this entailed. Originally it consisted of the period during which the newcomers were isolated in order to avoid the possible spread of epidemics. Typhus above all was feared in the camps; indeed, it killed many people at the time of the liberation in 1945 at Bergen-Belsen and Dachau. This preoccupation was very real at Buchenwald, where a quarantine was prolonged in March 1944 following the outbreak of a contagious illness.
In a few minutes, an order: “To the left, to the left!” We left the courtyard, but instead of going along the road, our guards had us walk towards number two crematorium, directly opposite. We crossed the courtyard of number two, knowing that this would be the last walk we would ever take. They led us into the crematorium furnace room, but none of the SS guards remained inside with us. Instead, they spread out in a circle around the building, stationed at intervals near the doors and windows, their guns poised, ready to fire. The doors were shut and the windows covered with heavy iron bars, completely thwarting any possibility of escape. Our comrades from number two were also present, and a few minutes later they unlocked the door and sent in the kommando from number four. Four hundred and sixty men in all, waiting to die. The only thing we did not know for sure was the method that would be used to exterminate us. We were specialists in the matter, having seen all methods in operation. Would it be in the gas chamber? I hardly thought so, not with the Sonderkommando. Machine guns? Not at all convenient in a room like this. Most likely they intended killing two birds with one stone, that is, blow up the building and us along with it. A plan worthy of the SS. Or perhaps they would toss a phosphorous bomb through one of the windows. That would be an equally effective method, one that had already been tried before, on the deportees from the Milo ghetto. What they had done then was load the deportees into box cars that were so dilapidated as to be of no further use, then toss a bomb inside.
En route to Auschwitz, when Günther’s train had stopped at a station in eastern Germany, the Jews in the freight wagons had shouted out, ‘Please give us some water.’ But ‘the people who were there [said], “Damned Jews! Didn’t they kill you yet?” ’ Günther was ‘depressed and upset’ by what happened at the station, but he still didn’t believe that his fellow Germans could possibly want to murder him. ‘We knew that we weren’t going first class,’ he says. ‘But we didn’t know that the majority of us would go into the gas chambers. We didn’t know of the existence of the gas chambers.’24
THE STAY OF DORA PRISONERS AT RAVENSBRÜCK. The third of the Altmark convoys that crossed the Elbe finally arrived in Ravensbrück, where the largest women’s concentration camp of the Reich was located. The first prisoners arrived there in May 1939. The camp was situated north of Brandenburg a few miles from Mecklenburg, directly east of the small town of Fürstenberg. Hohenlychen was located seven miles farther east.
When Manfred von Schröder, a German officer, discovered the reality of Auschwitz before the end of the war, he was ‘terrified’ and thought, ‘Oh goodness, what will happen to the Germans when we lose that war?’ Previously, fighting against the Red Army, he had felt that ‘Human life is cheap in a war. If you hear that somewhere near by some Russian prisoners or partisans or even Jews have been shot, then the feeling was – when the same day five of your comrades were shot – you think, And, so what? There were thousands dying every day … so you thought, “How do you try to be alive yourself?” And everything else doesn’t interest you very much, you know.’57
Buchenwald
CONDEMNED TO THAT REGION MIDWAY between hope and despair, we safely reached the first of January, 1945. Snow still blanketed the countryside as far as the eye could see. I left the crematorium to take a short walk around the courtyard.
It was impossible for the Sonderkommando to hold out against such numerical and material odds. Shouting exultantly, they erupted through the back gates of the crematorium. Firing as they went, they poured through the electrified barbed wires that had been cut ahead of time, and headed for the loop of the Vistula.
The dominant picture of the camps that appeared in the Western countries at the time was that of Buchenwald. This was especially true in France, where many former prisoners from Buchenwald would go on to hold notable positions in politics or journalism: Claude Bourdet, Guy Ducoloné, Pierre Durand, Albert Forcinal, Frédéric Manhès, André Marie, Marcel Paul, Christian Pineau, Rémy Roure, Pierre Sudreau, and Eugène Thomas, for instance. They returned at the end of April 1945, as did Louis Sellier, the author’s father, and his friends from Amiens, Louis Despierres and Paul Gaillandre. Pineau became supplies minister in 1945, Marcel Paul became minister of industrial production, and Eugène Thomas became postmaster general.
The German State had expropriated the entire village of Birkenau near Auschwitz, in order to establish the KZ there. All the houses, with the exception of this one, had been demolished, and the population evacuated.
The political and military power thus acquired, however, failed to satisfy the SS and Himmler. It had to be supplemented by economic power. In 1940 the WVHA, Wirtschaft- und Verwaltungshauptamt, or Central Office for the Economy and Administration, was set up under the command of Oswald Pohl, who was in charge of carrying out this project. According to a 1942 organization chart,11 it had five departments, the first two of which, A (budget) and B (supplies and clothing), were purely technical. Department C (construction) was run by Hans Kammler, who was in charge, most notably, of building the gas chambers in Auschwitz. Department D corresponded to what had been Eicke’s concentration camp inspection unit, following his transfer into the Waffen-SS and subsequent death on the Eastern Front in 1943. The switchover came into effect in April 1942 and Richard Glücks, who replaced Eicke, became head of Department D. Department W, dealing with the economy (Wirtschaft) in general, was put under Pohl’s direct authority. A large part of the WVHA bureaucracy had already been in place since 1938 in buildings in Oranienburg—part of a vast complex, also comprising the Sachsenhausen camp, the SS barracks, and various workshops and factories.
Dr Eberl believed, like Dr Brandt, that through his work he was furthering medical science. The brains of children killed at Brandenburg were sent to Professor Julius Hallervorden, head of the Neuropathology Department of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin. Eberl’s notebook records that Professor Hallervorden even visited Brandenburg and took part in autopsies conducted at the killing centre.54 Hallervorden subsequently said at the Nuremberg trials that ‘those brains offered wonderful material’ and ‘it really wasn’t my concern where they came from …’55
Nineteen-thirty-seven was in many ways a turning point. With the Olympics behind him, Hitler’s rhetoric returned to the fevered levels it had last reached in the early 1920s in the beer halls of Bavaria. In a speech at the Nuremberg rally on 13 September 1937, he claimed that Bolshevism was ‘the greatest menace with which the culture and civilization of the human race have been threatened since the collapse of the nations in Antiquity’.34 Crucially, he raised once again the link that he believed existed between the Jews and the Bosheviks. The ‘increasing upheaval’ that the world faced, he said, was caused by the ‘rulers of Jewish Bolshevism in Moscow’. In case anyone had missed this linkage, he added, ‘when I quite intentionally present this problem as Jewish, then you, my party comrades, know that this is not an unverified assumption, but a fact proven by irrefutable evidence.’ Hitler proceeded to give his audience a history lesson – albeit a distorted and twisted one – starting with his views on ‘Russia’. (Hitler persisted in referring to ‘Russia’ even though Russia was just one of a number of republics within the Soviet Union.) He claimed that the Jews had managed to ‘penetrate’ the ruling elite in ‘Russia’ and had succeeded in ‘exterminating’ the previous leadership. The Jews were a ‘foreign race’ who had seized ‘utter control’ of Russian civilization and now wanted to use Russia as a ‘bridgehead’ to conquer other peoples.
On 26 November, the merchant ship Donau left Oslo for Stettin in the Baltic with 532 Jews on board. Eventually, after further deportations, a total of 747 Norwegian Jews were murdered in Auschwitz. But the majority of the 2,000 Norwegian Jews managed to escape the Nazis, most by fleeing across the border to neutral Sweden.52
Emphasis was laid in chapter 4 on the systematization of coding that distinguished codes based upon mineral names from those based upon animal names, both of which were used by Speer’s services. The mineral code names apparently referred to underground installations; in addition to Zement and Schlier, mentioned above, there were also, for instance, Kaolin for B 12, Zinnstein (cassiterite) for B 11, Malachit for the Langenstein work site, and Porphyr and Turmalin for the work sites at Blankenburg. The animal names refer more to programs, such as Kitz (kid) for Peenemünde, or Kuckuck (cuckoo), Eber (boar), Schildkröte (tortoise) for the subsequent work done by B 11, or Reh (deer) for Neu Stassfurt and Gazelle (also a German word) for Weferlingen. Chronologically, the last of these programs seems to have been Kalb (calf) for the restructuring of a salt mine at Springen, in Thuringia, on the Hesse border. Marcel Colignon arrived there in January 1945 with a Kommando coming from Buchenwald.3
Himmler thus claimed that those who had been thrown into concentration camps had been sent there for their own good, as their ‘safety’ could not be assured on the streets because the rest of the population might turn on them. It was similar to the reasoning Hitler would attempt to use later that same month for the Jewish boycott – the Nazi state had to act or else the Volk would take matters into their own hands.41 According to Himmler, ‘protective custody’ worked in two ways: the population were ‘protected’ from those the Nazis arrested, and those who were arrested were ‘protected’ from the rest of the population. This was the logic behind the otherwise bizarre statement which prisoners were required to sign on their release from concentration camps: ‘I am aware that I may at any time apply for a further period of protective custody if I consider my physical well being to be in jeopardy.’42
Sooner or later, all the Jews in Kamp Vught were deported. On 2 June 1944, the final group left the camp: 391 women, ninety men, and fifteen children under the age of fourteen. Four days and nights later, they arrived in Auschwitz-Birkenau.
I took off as fast as my legs could carry me. Four men, dressed in the striped jerkin of prisoners, were standing beside the casks, struck dumb with horror. They were the Polish masons I had noticed earlier. They had finished their work and were waiting in the courtyard for their guards to come and take them back to Auschwitz I. Starved, they had been scrounging for some food when by chance they had come upon the casks, which had been left unguarded for a few minutes. Thinking it was the Sonderkommando meat which was being cooked, they had sniffed at it, then fetched up some pieces of flesh which were not covered with skin and begun to eat them.
My blood froze in my veins. Methodical race that they are, the Germans no doubt had a muster list containing the names or numbers of those who had worked at Auschwitz. It seemed likely. And yet . . . thinking about it, I came to the conclusion that this was merely a ruse, an attempt to single out from the mass those capable of revealing the sordid mysteries of the crematoriums. If they had really had a list all they would have had to do was to check our tattoo numbers. No one knew me here. I waited, the blood pounding in my ears; there was complete silence in the barracks as the seconds ticked slowly by. And then they left. I had won again. Once again the wheel of death had spun and passed me by.
The first plan laid out by Sawatzki on October 1, 1943, was allegedly written in Hammersfeld—a place that does not exist. This name was soon dropped. The WIFO report of December 31, which will be referred to further on, was dated “OU,” which corresponds to Ort ungenannt, or “unnamed place,” the height of camouflage.16 The postal address of the Dora camp was first Block 17 of the Buchenwald camp, and then Sangerhausen, a city some thirty miles to the east of Nordhausen, whose name, on the other hand, never appears.
47 Alfonsas Eidintas, Žydai, Lietuviai ir Holokaustas, quoted in MacQueen, ‘Lithuanian Collaboration in the “Final Solution”: Motivations and Case Studies’.
The camp, called Klosterwerke, was located in Oesig, a town to the west of Blankenburg. Thanks to Belgian testimonies, in particular Albert Van Hoey’s12 and Narcisse Dufrane’s, its history is known. It was opened on August 23, 1944, by a group of 500 prisoners who had arrived by train directly from Buchenwald. Among them there were 369 Belgians belonging to the August 10 convoy and several Frenchmen arrested either in Belgium, such as Hubert Tumerelle, or in the north of France such as Boleslas Leciejewski, from Lens.13 The other prisoners were Greens involved in supervising the blocks, the Kommandos, the Poles and Russians, and so on.
trial of. See also Communism, in concentration camps; Doctors; Kapos.
Like many who hadn’t seen combat in the First World War, Himmler wanted to show that he could be a brave fighter. After hearing a speech in Munich from a general who in 1919 had fought in the Baltic against the Bolsheviks, he wrote in his diary, ‘Now I know more certainly than ever, if there is another campaign in the east, I will go along. The east is the most important thing for us. The west is simply dying. In the east, we need to fight and settle.’47 They were unconsciously prophetic words, given that Himmler would subsequently orchestrate genocide ‘in the east’ during the Second World War.
Our conversation grew more and more spirited. Poland, France, Greece, Germany and Italy were represented around the table. Since most of us understood German it served as our common language. From the conversation I learned the history of the crematoriums. Tens of thousands of prisoners had built them of stone and concrete, finishing them in the middle of an extremely rigorous winter. Every stone was stained with their blood. They had worked day and night, often without food or drink, dressed in mere tatters, so that these infernal death-factories, whose first victims they became, might be finished in time.
For a young woman like Erna Krantz in the 1930s it was not just a question of the positives of life under the Nazis outweighing the negatives. To a large extent the negatives of the regime as we see it – the concentration camps, the isolation of minority groups targeted by the Nazis and so on – were perceived as part of the positive. The concentration camps were thought necessary to remove the undesirables from the streets; the new racial-based teaching was welcomed as it told the young they were special; and as for the exclusion of the Jews, well, as the banker Johannes Zahn says, there was a perception among a section of the population that they had ‘gone too far’25 in Germany. So as long as you conformed to the Nazi ideal – and millions of Germans did just that – it was possible to enjoy yourself in Hitler’s Third Reich during the 1930s. Many of those who did would later say that they had no idea that the persecution of the Jews, encapsulated in the Nuremberg Laws and other restrictive legislation, would lead to the Holocaust. And while in one sense that is true – there is no evidence at this point that Hitler had a blueprint for what was to come – it is also misleading. Because a fundamental reason that millions of Germans could enjoy life in Hitler’s Germany was that they enthusiastically supported the racial theories that were at the core of Nazi thought. They embraced the idea that they were better than others. As a consequence, it was possible to treat as lesser human beings those they were told weren’t like them. The argument was not about others being inferior – that was accepted by large numbers of people – the argument was about how these ‘lesser’ people should be treated.
30 Martin Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, Pimlico, 2001, pp. 46–7.
Throughout the winter months there was constant movement between the camps. The evacuations of Auschwitz in January and Gross Rosen in February brought to the Mittelbau complex, along with numerous corpses, a mass of prisoners in increasingly poor condition that had to be housed, especially at Dora. As the Revier was overcrowded, some of the ill were transferred to the new camp at Nordhausen, which originally housed only workers employed in the area.
This extensive form of economic exploitation, which included calculations about the inmates’ death rate, led to the creation in the Mittelbau complex of a camp system based on functional dimensions. Accordingly, in keeping with the demands of the SS-Führungsstäbe and the construction projects, new inmates arrived at the Dora camp in a steady flow from other concentration camps. They were assigned, on the basis of physical fitness and professional qualification, to the various camps of the Mittelbau complex. Prisoners who were professionally qualified and appeared to be still fit for production remained mostly in the main Dora camp or were sent to camps that housed work commandos assigned to the armaments industry. Exhausted inmates stood virtually no chance of escaping assignment to one of the notorious “construction” camps where the last ounce of labor energy was beaten out of them. Most of the inmates experienced a via dolorosa that, in ever-shorter time periods, took them from camp to camp and ended in death. This practice of mobile selection made it possible for the SS and the firms profiting from inmate labor to achieve maximum output with a minimum of food.
Even though Jews from all over occupied Europe were now dying in the gas chambers of Birkenau, and the whole mechanism of what we now call the Holocaust had long been established, the overall picture was still not a straightforward one. For example, while the majority of ghettos in Poland had been liquidated, there remained one major exception – the Łódź ghetto, a place where large numbers of Jews still survived. The continued existence of the Łódź ghetto into 1944 demonstrates once again how the way the Holocaust was implemented could alter from place to place. At the start of 1944 there were still more than 75,000 Jews in the Łódź ghetto, permitted to live because Arthur Greiser, the ruler of the Warthegau, had convinced Himmler that the work produced by the Jews justified their continued existence.
The Debate over the Concentration Camps
BLOCK ORGANIZATION. Each concentration camp in Nazi Germany contained a number of blocks. Some were permanent structures and others were made of wood. At Buchenwald some blocks had two floors. When the prisoners were housed in preexisting buildings that were not always suitable, such as those at Ellrich, the buildings were called blocks. The tunnel “dormitories” were supposed to be blocks.
A most extreme example were those prisoners who volunteered to work in the gas chambers hoping it would somehow save their lives. All of them were killed after a short time. But many of them died sooner, and after weeks of a more horrible life, than might have been true if they had not volunteered.
43 The city of Lwów had many different names in the twentieth century. For example, it was called Lemberg by the Germans, Lviv by Ukrainians and Lvov by the Russians. The spelling used here is the Polish version, because at the start of the war this was the name of the city. The figure of 4,000 for the pogrom in 1941 is the estimate by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
By June 1941 a whole range of anti-Semitic measures were in place, directed against the 140,000 Jews living in the Netherlands.18 Dutch Jews could no longer visit cinemas or public parks or swimming pools; they could not own radio sets or attend mixed schools or work as lawyers or doctors for anyone other than Jewish clients. The Reichskommissar for the Netherlands, Arthur Seyss-Inquart, had demanded all these measures. A committed anti-Semite himself, he was a hard-line Nazi who had grown up in Austria and played a part in the downfall of Chancellor Schuschnigg in 1938. After the invasion of Poland in September 1939 he had served as deputy to Hans Frank, helping to administer and oppress the Poles in the General Government. So by the time he was appointed to his post in the Netherlands he had experienced first hand the bloody reality of the Nazi policy in the east. The fact that the Netherlands was ruled by a brutal racist like Seyss-Inquart, and Belgium by a military governor, General Alexander von Falkenhausen, also partly explains the subsequent disparity between the death rates of Jews in the two countries. Which is not to say that Falkenhausen was any friend of the Jews. He presided over appalling atrocities in Belgium, in part orchestrated by Eggert Reeder, the SS administrator who worked with him, but he still remained an old-school general – one who would eventually be sent to a concentration camp for his complicity in the 20 July plot against Hitler.
8 Serge Klarsfeld, French Children of the Holocaust, New York University Press, 1996, p. 34.
Himmler’s reaction was to protest, on 21 April, to Norbert Masur, a Swedish official of the World Jewish Congress – and a Jew – that he had not received the thanks he deserved for handing over the camps to the Allies.59 During the discussion he also repeated many of the self-serving lies and excuses he had made in his letter to Kersten in mid-March: the Jews were a foreign element in Germany and had needed to be removed; the Jews were dangerous because they were linked to Bolshevism; he had wanted peaceful emigration for the Jews, but other countries had not cooperated; Jews from the east carried typhus and the Germans had built crematoria to dispose of the sick who had died; the German people had suffered along with the Jews in this war; concentration camps were really re-education camps, and so on.
These were my arguments, and I asked him to do something for the child. He listened to me attentively, then asked me exactly what I proposed doing. I saw by his expression that I had put him face to face with a practically impossible problem. It was obvious that the child could not remain in the crematorium. One solution would have been to put her in front of the crematorium gate. A kommando of women always worked there. She could have slipped in among them and accompanied them back to the camp barracks after they had finished work. She would never relate what had happened to her. The presence of one new face among so many thousands would never be detected, for no one in the camp knew all the other inmates.
While the violent excesses in Emsland had been perpetrated by those on the ground, it was the lack of leadership at the top that had been a necessary precondition of the lawless way the camps had operated. Now, just as Himmler had made Dachau into a place of orderly – rather than chaotic – cruelty, he would be given the authority to reform the concentration camps in Göring’s Prussian realm. Himmler also became responsible for all of the German police, although he remained as yet nominally subordinate to Göring within Prussia.
Stiftung Gedenkstötte Buchenwald und Mittelbau-Dora
During his time in the Auschwitz Sonderkommando, Morris Kesselman had tried to ‘strengthen himself’ with ‘whatever [food] was available’. He had also learnt to give himself an edge during selections in Birkenau by standing next to someone who looked weak. ‘If it wouldn’t be him it would be me,’ he says. ‘Did I feel sorry? Sure I felt sorry, but I couldn’t help him. But at that point I only watched out for myself. I was not in a position to help anybody.’25 Once assigned to the Sonderkommando, though horrified by the work he had to do, he believes his chances of survival were increased by the fact that he was young and ‘didn’t know much about anything’. He remembers that it was predominantly the ‘elderly people, the intelligent people’ who committed suicide by flinging themselves on the electric fences. He believes the young and less well educated found it easier to cope. As a member of the Sonderkommando he had access to the clothes of the murdered Jews and so in January 1945, ‘when I marched out of the camp … I was very well dressed. I had a Russian hat, a fur hat, with a heavy coat, and good shoes. And the only thing is, I don’t know what made me do it, but I had my pockets full of lumps of sugar. Why I did it, I don’t know – other people took meat. The sugar and the snow [mixed together], I survived because of that.’26
It is especially important that the renovations of the Dora Tunnel be continued. Indeed, the camps themselves in their current state provide a necessarily imperfect picture of concentration camp life. In Buchenwald the very monumentality of the commemoration and the disappearance of the blocks used for housing leave the visitor perplexed—above all if the visitor happens to be a former prisoner. At Dora the entirely charming natural setting tends to make one forget what the site, long ago and for a relatively short period of time—some twenty months overall—was used for. The author, on the basis of putting things together and examining what remains of the foundations, was able to find the site of his former block and to reconstruct it in his mind; the average visitor, however, cannot carry out such an exercise. In terms of its size and indestructible character, the Dora Tunnel is no doubt the place of memory most suited for the final phase of the Nazi concentration camp system—and the 1991 commission of experts made no mistake about that.
70 Yitzhak Arad, Yisrael Gutman and Abraham Margaliot (eds.), Documents on the Holocaust, University of Nebraska Press, 1999, pp. 216–18, Rademacher memo, 3 July 1940.
In parallel to this tactical approach to the ‘Jewish question’, Hitler was also careful about how he spoke of his other deeply held conviction – his wish to create a German empire in the western regions of the Soviet Union. He never voiced this desire in public during the 1930s. But in private, the year before his 1937 speech at Nuremberg, he had made clear his intention to confront the ‘danger’ of Bolshevism. In a memorandum he wrote in August 1936, at the time he appointed Hermann Göring head of the economic programme known as the ‘Four Year Plan’, Hitler reiterated that – on the military front – it was the destiny of Germany to deal with Bolshevism. Since Germany was overpopulated, it was necessary to gain more land, thus ‘the final solution [to this problem] lies in extending our living space.’37 The use of the words ‘final solution’ in this context is worth noting – since the plan to exterminate the Jews would also come to be known by the same two words. Here they are meant to distinguish the transitional phase, during which the Germans would build up their military strength, from the ‘final solution’ phase, when the actual military conflict would commence.
This marks the moment when Hitler burnt any diplomatic bridges that had been left standing between Germany and America. He mentioned a number of times in the speech how America had intervened on the Allied side in the First World War, and his concern, though unspoken, was obvious – the Americans might do just the same thing in any future conflict in Europe. Since Hitler believed that the Jews held profound influence in America, it is not surprising that December 1941, the month that America did finally enter the war, is a key moment – as we shall see – in the evolution of the Holocaust.
THE DORA TRIAL AT ESSEN. Though it took place much later, it is important to mention the trial of three SS from Dora, which was held at Essen between November 17, 1967, and May 8, 1970. On this occasion the trial was before a German court. The creation in 1958 of the special inquiry service on Nazi crimes indeed made it possible to gather evidence and prepare prosecution regarding those cases that had not been judged by the Allied courts.
A new life began in the KZ. There were no more violent deaths, but the bloody past had to be hidden. The crematoriums had to be demolished, the pyre ditches filled in, and any witness to or participant in the horrors perpetrated here had to disappear. Fully conscious of our impending doom, we greeted the change with a mixture of joy and resignation.
Debate over concentration camps (postwar)
This phenomenon was unique in world medical science history. Twin brothers died together, and it was possible to perform autopsies on both. Where, under normal circumstances, can one find twin brothers who die at the same place and at the same time? For twins, like everyone else, are separated by life’s varying circumstances. They live far from each other and almost never die simultaneously. One may die at the age of ten, the other at fifty. Under such conditions comparative dissection is impossible. In the Auschwitz camp, however, there were several hundred sets of twins, and therefore as many possibilities of dissection. That was why, on the arrival platform, Dr. Mengele separated twins and dwarfs from the other prisoners. That was why both special groups were directed to the right-hand column, and thence to the barracks of the spared. That was why they had good food and hygienic living conditions, so that they didn’t contaminate each other and die one before the other. They had to die together, and in good health.
Bielsko was part of the twin city of Bielsko-Biała, divided by the Biała River (Polish for ‘white’). A divided city: for centuries, the two parts were in different duchies – Bielitz (the German name for Bielsko) in the Duchy of Teschen and Biała in the Duchy of Auschwitz – and, later, even in two different countries, Bielitz in Austria and Biała in Poland. On top of that, the city was a linguistic enclave: most of the population spoke German, while Polish was spoken all around the city. Likewise in religion: most of the city’s people were Lutherans, including the Christianus family.
All this needs to be set against another fact that is often overlooked, which is that during the war most of Hitler’s time was spent trying to think of ways to defeat his enemies on the battlefield. While the racist and anti-Semitic views held by him and many others in Nazi Germany made a confrontation with the Jews an inevitable consequence of this war, Hitler’s day-to-day attention was predominantly on military matters. That partly explains why the implementation of the Holocaust was often under-resourced and haphazard.
3 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, pp. 248–52.
The prisoners who arrived on May 11 in Wieda, followed by the camp equipment, were Russians and Poles under the supervision of Germans. On June 6 these prisoners of long standing were joined by French prisoners who arrived by train from Buchenwald at the Walkenried station. They belonged to the convoy that had left Compiègne on May 12, 1944, and their identity numbers ran from the “49,000”s to the “53,000”s. Among them were Jacques-Christian Bailly, who wrote a detailed account of this period, Paul Chandon-Moët, René Cogny, Roger Couëtdic, Raoul Giquel, Bernard Girardin, Roger Jourdain, André Laroche, Maurice Leteuil, Marc Maire, Max Oesch, Jean de Sesmaisons, Louis Vallier, and Jean Voisin.
The barbed wire enclosure was interrupted every thirty or forty yards by elevated watch towers, in each of which an SS guard stood leaning against a machine gun mounted on a tripod. This then was the Auschwitz concentration camp, or, according to the Germans, who delight in abbreviating everything, the KZ, pronounced “Katzet.” Not a very encouraging sight to say the least, but for the moment our awakened curiosity got the better of our fear.
Certain photographs bring out the factory’s size and prevailing order; this can be seen in illustrations 10 through 12. Others show the prisoners at work (illustrations 13 through 15), as Hitler himself had demanded, barring foreign civilians from those tasks. But the prisoners appear as qualified workers—as befits a weapon of such importance. These photographs were not intended for propaganda, because their subject was both a concentration camp and a secret factory, which could not be shown. They ought to have been destroyed, but as it happens Walter Frentz held on to a certain number of them, hidden in a suitcase, which were discovered by his son, Hanns-Peter Frentz, when Walter Frentz moved into a retirement home. They provide a one-of-a-kind testimony.
Chapter 3. Buchenwald and the Concentration Camp System in 1943
Rassinier’s personality is disconcerting. He established no friendships in the camp and had only negative judgments with regard to the other prisoners, both at Buchenwald and at Dora. Entrenched in his solitude and his inaction in the Revier, he fabricated a schema for interpreting the concentration camp world that is at times banal and at others just plain aberrant. As he was naturally given to pontificating, he was known in the Revier as the “professor.” (He has actually kept this title in certain bibliographies in German.)
From the moment the camp was established in spring 1940, death had been a constant presence at Auschwitz. But the arrival of the Slovak families and the consequent selections held on the ramp heralded a new era of horror. Those chosen to die were the most temporary visitors imaginable. The old, the sick, the children, all waited by the converted cottages to be gassed. ‘They used to sit there,’ says Otto Pressburger, a Slovak Jew who worked on the ‘corpse commando’. ‘They must have been eating their food from home. SS men were around them with dogs. They, of course, didn’t know what was going to happen to them. We did not want to tell them. It would have been worse for them. We were thinking that the people who brought them here were not humans but some wild jungle creatures.’55
A few days later, more than 200 women from the Philips group were transferred to Reichenbach concentration camp near Breslau, where they were put to work at a branch of Telefunken. In July, the other women from Philips, except for mothers with children, were sent to join the group in Reichenbach. Soon afterwards, the men were also transferred to Reichenbach, where they were forced to work in a labour camp for the Hagenuk company. Ultimately, 382 Jews from the Philips-Kommando came out of the war alive because they had been assigned to work in Reichenbach. But among the members of the original SOBU group who were sent to Auschwitz, only thirty-nine survived.
Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia completed the Soviet zone. The traditional—and generally age-old—political borders were respected in the demarcation with Lower Saxony, Hesse, and Bavaria. Only a few enclaves of Brunswick and of Hesse were incorporated into Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia. Buchenwald was included in the Soviet zone along with virtually all of its Kommandos such as Ohrdruf, Laura, and Langenstein. But Gandersheim was located in Lower Saxony.
The German portion of Poland was itself cut in half. One part was directly attached to the Deutsches Reich with a view to its Germanization. Once again Poznan became Posen, and it was there in the setting of the castle that Himmler made his great speeches. Oswiecim, in Upper Silesia, became Auschwitz, and a camp was set up there in May 1940, whose first occupants along with Germans were Poles. The other part formed the General Government of Poland, attached to the Reich and placed under its direct administration. The General Government had its headquarters in Krakow; Warsaw was in ruins. Polish prisoners of war were distributed throughout Germany, along with millions of Polish civilian workers, usually forced laborers. Above all, the nation’s managers, functionaries, academics, and officers were sent to camps such as Sachsenhausen and Mauthausen.
Once again Europe’s pyromaniacs had organized a gigantic display of fireworks. Once again the setting was the Auschwitz concentration camp. This time, however, the victims thrown to the flames were not Jews, but Christians: Catholic gypsies from Germany and Austria. By morning their bodies had been transformed into a pile of silvery ashes rising in the crematorium courtyard. The bodies of twelve sets of twins had not been consigned to the flames. Even before sending them to the gas chamber, Dr. Mengele had marked a Z.S. on their chests with his special chalk.
Josef Bühler, the representative of Hans Frank, asked if the Final Solution could begin in the General Government. The Jews to be killed were already there, he said, so any ‘transport problem’ was not serious. After Bühler’s request, the meeting discussed ‘various’ possible ‘solutions’ to implement the Final Solution – an obvious euphemism for a variety of potential ways to murder the Jews. Much of the rest of the meeting was taken up with an inconclusive discussion about definitions. In particular, just what should be done with those who were considered Mischlinge – part-Jews? Heydrich also announced that a small number of Jews – such as those with war decorations – might be transported to a special ‘ghetto’ at Theresienstadt, north of Prague, rather than directly to the east. This remark confirmed, despite the euphemistic nature of the minutes, that almost all of the Jews were to be sent to a terrible fate.
The Sonderkommandos formed relationships not just with prisoners in the rest of the camp, but also with the SS who supervised their work in the crematoria/gas chambers. The SS had already discovered at death camps like Sobibór that it was counter-productive for them to kill all the Sonderkommandos after a brief period and then select a new group. Similarly, at Auschwitz it became common for the Sonderkommandos to be kept alive for many months. As a result, and because of the proximity in which they worked with the SS, a kind of intimacy developed, with the SS overseers often treating the Sonderkommandos much better than other prisoners at Auschwitz. Dr Miklós Nyiszli even witnessed them playing football together – a team of Sonderkommandos versus a team of SS.28 Dario Gabbai remembers one Dutch member of the SS almost with fondness, describing him as ‘a very nice guy’.29 Morris Venezia, another Sonderkommando, confirms that this Dutchman was ‘The best guard we had in the crematoria. He treated us sometimes to a cigarette. Sometimes we treated him to a cigarette. A very, very good man, very friendly with us.’ But even this ‘nice guy’, says Morris, ‘was always willing to go and kill people. And he was one of the best of our guards. I couldn’t understand that – why?’30
4 Dr. Nyiszli came to the United States in the summer of 1939, and remained until February of 1940, as a member of the Rumanian delegation to the World’s Fair. He had intended to bring his family over and settle in America. But during his stay war broke out and he returned to his family. Once back, it was impossible for him to leave the country again. As a result, Auschwitz.—Tr.
It is a remarkable document. Not just because it allows us an insight into the thinking in 1919 of the man who would later instigate the Holocaust, but also because it is the first irrefutable evidence of Hitler’s own anti-Semitic beliefs. In his autobiography, Mein Kampf, which he wrote five years later, Hitler claimed that he had hated Jews even when he was a struggling artist in Vienna in the early years of the twentieth century. But some scholars have cast doubt on his simplistic version of his own past,2 and questioned whether he really held these strong anti-Semitic views during his time in Vienna and his service as a soldier in the First World War.3
AFTER THE ARRIVAL OF THE CONVOYS. The arrival of the convoys from Auschwitz and Gross Rosen modified the facts of the problem, both quantitatively and qualitatively. The weakest newcomers, like Halkin and Bleton, after a period in the Schonung, were admitted into the Revier as dysenteric or tubercular. The blocks of the Revier became more and more overcrowded. The most courageous newcomers, after a few days of being crammed into the Kino, were divided between the blocks and the Kommandos. Hofstein was sent as a doctor to Osterode.33 Chabaud went to the Revier laboratory. Vedel was assigned to the tunnel as a metalworker on the V2 tanks,34 and Gabriel Ramet (coming from Monowitz) as a metal turner. Climaud and Poiteau also worked in the tunnel until the evacuation.
THE EVACUATION OF AUSCHWITZ. The Auschwitz camp was in Upper Silesia, in a part of Poland that was directly incorporated into the Reich in 1939. (The Polish name of the small nearby town is Oswiecim.) The camp was opened in June 1940 by the Polish under the supervision of Greens from Sachsenhausen.3 The Czech, Russian, and other prisoners came next, but the Polish—still numerous—were in the end the most influential, alongside the Germans. The camp was for a long time particularly harsh; the 1942 convoys of French hostages, men (the “45,000”s) and women (the “31,000”s) experienced considerable losses.4 Afterward the situation improved for the survivors, and André Rogerie—who came to Dora via Maïdanek in 1944—considered he had seen worse. He was close at hand during the “selections” of Hungarian Jews and was one of the first to make mention of it in his memoirs published in 1946.5
Charles Bleeker Kohlsaat, an ethnic German living in the Warthegau in Poland, heard this fear expressed first hand. His uncle had learnt what was happening in Auschwitz and warned: ‘Should the world ever find out what is going on there, we have had it.’ Bleeker Kohlsaat asked his mother: ‘Mummy, what does Uncle Willy mean?’ And she replied: ‘Well, it is very difficult to explain, and there is no need for you to know.’ He remembers that ‘We [had] assumed it [Auschwitz] to be a severe prison or something of the kind, where people received extremely meagre food and might even be treated badly, meaning that they were shouted at – not beaten – but received meagre food and had to work very hard. That’s what we believed. We thought they were being punished in a severe prison, that’s what we imagined. Our imagination did not stretch far enough to guess what was concealed behind the scenes.’56
The Arrival of the Convoys from Auschwitz and Gross Rosen
This development was to the Greens’ benefit in that they had an easier time finding jobs as Kapos, in particular in exterior Kommandos rather than in the large camps. The de facto complicity between them and the SS was reinforced in these Kommandos, as was the case at Ellrich. In the large camps, on the other hand, though not without some difficulty, a link was established between German and Austrian Reds and foreign politicians, in Buchenwald and Dachau for example, as will be shown.
Now, above my head, the sky was bright with stars, and the soft evening breeze would have been refreshing if, from time to time, it had not borne with it the odor of bodies burning in the Third Reich’s crematoriums.
Admiral Horthy now had to decide what to do. Should he try and stop the transports to Auschwitz and so incur the wrath of the Germans, or let them continue despite the protests? Leading Nazis like Joseph Goebbels had previously felt secure in their hold over him – not just because they had successfully bullied Horthy into ‘inviting’ German troops into Hungary in March and cooperating in the deportation of the Jews, but because they believed that he now welcomed the chance to expel the Jews from his country. ‘At any rate,’ wrote Goebbels in his diary on 27 April, ‘he now no longer obstructs the cleansers of public life in Hungary; on the contrary, he is now murderously angry with the Jews and has no objections to us using them as hostages. He even suggested the same thing himself … At any rate the Hungarians will not escape the rhythm of the Jewish question. Whoever says A must say B, and the Hungarians, having started with Judenpolitik, can for that reason not halt it. From a certain point onwards Judenpolitik propels itself.’48 This is a particularly revealing diary entry, for Goebbels states unequivocally how he believed the Nazis could handle their allies over the question of the Jews. If the Nazis managed to get blood on the hands of their allies, they would have no choice but to stick with the Third Reich come what may.
It was indeed an historic event, the first of its kind since the founding of the KZ. Eight hundred and fifty-three prisoners, and seventy SS were killed. Included among the latter were an Obersturmführer, seventeen Oberschaarführer and Schaarführer and fifty-two Sturmmänner. Number three crematorium burned to the ground. And number four, as a result of damage to its equipment, was rendered useless.
ARTERN, COLDITZ, BERGA, FLÖHA. A column was formed in Artern32 south of Sangerhausen on April 5 to evacuate the recent satellite camp of Dora. The column went through Nebra, Naumburg, and Zeitz and reached the Kommando in Tröglitz, east of Zeitz, on April 8. The members of this Buchenwald Kommando, mainly populated by Jews, were in very poor condition. During the night of April 11 to 12 a train came to pick up 2,200 prisoners, including those from Artern. The convoy passed through Chemnitz and Flöha before stopping for three days in Marienberg with its locomotive out of order. It started up again on April 16 but underwent an air attack in Reitzenhain, on the border of Saxony and Sudetenland. There were prisoners killed in the attack and prisoners who escaped, some of whom were caught and executed: in all, some 250 victims. The survivors set off on foot through Komotau (Chomutov), Postelberg (Postoloprty), and Lobositz, finally arriving in Leitmeritz on the evening of April 20.
4 Dr Miklós Nyiszli, Auschwitz: A Doctor’s Eyewitness Account, Penguin, 2012, p. 35.
Another camp was set up at the end of January 1945 in Regenstein, a hill located to the north of Blankenburg. Its code name was Turmalin. The prisoners were Jews evacuated from the Fürstengrübe Kommando, dependent on Auschwitz.14
Among the characteristics that stand out in Rousset’s and Kogon’s schema, the Reds’ victorious struggle against the Greens for the control of the Buchenwald camp’s internal administration is of primary importance—which contributed to the prestige of the communist leaders. This is all the more noteworthy as neither Kogon nor Rousset were communists themselves. Kogon was a Catholic activist and Rousset was a former member of the Socialist students who had turned to Trotskyism. Neither of them was a novice or gullible with regard to political issues. It is also noteworthy that the publication of Kogon’s book was supported by the American officer Rosenberg and the future leader of the British Labour Party, Richard Crossman, as is the fact that it came out in the American-occupied zone.
Hans Stark, a member of the SS at Auschwitz, told interrogators after the war that in October 1941 he had been present at just such a killing. Indeed, he had been ‘ordered’ to ‘pour Zyklon B into the opening’ himself as ‘only one medical orderly had shown up.’ He said that since the Zyklon B ‘was in granular form, it trickled down over the people as it was being poured in. They then started to cry out terribly, for they now knew what was happening to them … After some time had passed … the gas chamber was opened. The dead lay higgledy-piggledy all over the place. It was a dreadful sight.’31
Strangely enough, it was an Austrian who forged the tool for such understanding, and another Austrian whose acts forced an inescapable need to understand them upon us. Years before Hitler sent millions to the gas chambers, Freud insisted that human life is one long struggle against what he called the death instinct, and that we must learn to keep these destructive strivings within bounds lest they send us to our destruction. The twentieth century did away with ancient barriers that once prevented our destructive tendencies from running rampant, both in ourselves and in society. State, family, church, society, all were put to question, and found wanting. So their power to restrain or channel our destructive tendencies was weakened. The re-evaluation of all values which Nietzsche (Hitler’s prophet, though Hitler, like others, misunderstood him abysmally) predicted would be required of Western man, were he to survive in the modern machine age, has not yet been achieved. The old means of controlling the death instinct have lost much of their hold, and the new, higher morality that should replace them is not yet achieved. In this interregnum between an old and new social organization—between man’s obsolete inner organization and the new structure not yet achieved—little is left to restrain man’s destructive tendencies. In this age then, only man’s personal ability to control his own death instinct can protect him when the destructive forces of others, as in the Hitler state, run rampant.
The observed rise in the number of prisoners results from the conjunction of various factors that Sofsky,29 among others, has enumerated. There was first of all, in late 1942, the transfer into the camps of inmates from prisons in the Reich—those serving sentences of more than eight years in the case of Germans and Czechs, and more than three years for Poles, as it was specified. There was also, progressively, the transfer of more or less free workers into the camps on the basis of a wide variety of accusations, the most often targeted being the Polish and the Ostarbeiter, Ukrainians, or others; the same lot was reserved for many Soviet prisoners of war. It was then decided to use a Jewish or Gypsy labor force outside of the Auschwitz complex. Rather curiously, in his assessments, Sofsky seems to overlook the “deportees” from the occupied countries in the west and south of Europe.
Just like the Reinhard camps, the murder factories in Birkenau needed only a handful of SS men to oversee the whole process. The manual labour – including the horrendous task of untangling the dead from the gas chambers – was performed by Sonderkommandos. But, revealingly, it was always SS personnel who dropped the Zyklon B into the gas chambers.
The men of the Sonderkommando also turned their gold over to be smelted. Despite the strictest supervision there were always ways of getting it to the goldsmiths and of later retrieving it in the form of 140 gram “coins.” But putting this gold to work, that is, exchanging it for useful goods, was a more difficult job. No one dreamed of hoarding his gold, for he knew that in four months’ time he would be dead. But for us four months was a very long time. To be condemned to death and yet forced to perform jobs such as we had to perform day after day was enough to break the body and soul of the strongest among us, and to drive many to the brink of insanity. It was thus necessary to make life easier, more bearable, even for a few weeks’ time. With gold you could do that, even in the crematoriums.
The “transports” from Buchenwald to Dora having been set up essentially for those prisoners in quarantine, their order corresponded with the convoys that arrived in Buchenwald. The progression can be tracked with regard to both French prisoners and prisoners of other nationalities arrested in France. The same could be done for the Ukrainians, for instance, but the information is not easily available. The first convoy arriving in Buchenwald from Compiègne on June 27, 1943, was comprised of 1,000 deportees, who were numbered in the “14,000” series (beginning at around “13,800”). A group of them left for Peenemünde/Karlshagen, where they arrived on July 11. The others remained in Buchenwald. Certain among them would later be part of the first transports to Dora, at the very beginning of September.
The era of the Reinhard camps was over. But the most infamous period in the life of Auschwitz – one that would make this place the site of the largest mass murder in history – was just about to begin.
100 Aly, ‘Final Solution’, p. 214.
In the month of March 1945, on the hill above the camp, the brand-new crematorium was put into operation.
FROM PEENEMÜNDE TO DORA. It took the German leaders only some ten days to draw their conclusions about the bombing of Peenemünde. On August 18, Speer traveled by plane successively to Peenemünde, Schweinfurt, and Ratisbonne to get an idea of the extent of the destruction caused by the British and American bombing raids. During this time, Himmler left his headquarters in Hochwald in East Prussia to meet with Hitler in Rastenburg and urged him to take three steps: move A4 production facilities from Peenemünde to an indeterminate underground site; move the test base to an SS training camp in Blizna, Poland; and use only concentration camp labor in the factory, alongside the German personnel.
However, in the late summer and early autumn of 1941 there were discussions about a change in the timetable of the Final Solution. A number of Hitler’s most loyal followers wanted the Jews deported east not after the war was over but immediately. When Goebbels met Hitler on 19 August he asked for the Jews of Berlin to be removed from the German capital. Goebbels felt it unconscionable that 70,000 Jews were still able to live in the city while German soldiers were fighting and dying on the eastern front. Hitler did not agree to deport the Berlin Jews at once, but he did accept one of Goebbels’ proposals – that German Jews should be marked. Jews in Poland had been forced to wear identification badges for some time, and now it was the turn of German Jews to be subjected to this humiliation.
They advanced with slow, weary steps. The children’s eyes were heavy with sleep and they clung to their mothers’ clothes. For the most part the babies were carried in their fathers’ arms, or else wheeled in their carriages. The SS guards remained before the crematorium doors, where a poster announced: “Entrance is Strictly Forbidden to All Who Have No Business Here, Including SS.”
Hitler continued, however, to be sensitive to foreign criticism of Jewish persecution. Although there is no evidence that his personal hatred of the Jews had lessened, he was concerned about spontaneous attacks on Jews by ordinary Nazis. As the letter sent by the Reich Interior Ministry about the Palm Sunday pogrom in Gunzenhausen had stated, ‘The Jewish question is to be handled by the government of the Reich,’ not by local hotheads.6 The problem Hitler faced was that many of his supporters still felt that the measures taken so far to exclude the Jews from the mainstream of German life had not been strong enough. Local groups, for instance, fought to ban Jews from swimming pools and ice rinks – even from whole towns. Rudi Bamber remembers that by 1935 ‘one had to be more and more careful because many of the towns and villages had notices, “Jews not wanted”, so it was difficult to find where one could go and be accepted as a Jew.’7
As a Holocaust survivor I have a deep respect for every person who saved even one life, Jewish or otherwise, under any circumstances whatsoever. No attempt of any kind has been made to discredit the actions of Chiune Sugihara, but merely to emphasise that Jan Zwartendijk, no less than Sugihara, deserves a place of honour and will receive the posthumous recognition he truly deserves.
Packages and letters were another major problem, because of the address. When new prisoners arrived at Buchenwald in quarantine, they were allowed to write to their families (unless they were classified NN) and give them the number of a Buchenwald block. After their transfer to Dora their address remained Weimar-Buchenwald; Block 17 meant Dora. Then the number of the block at Dora was added, and the address became, for example, 17/14. Later, Weimar-Buchenwald disappeared and was replaced by Sangerhausen, a town in Prussian Saxony twenty-five miles from Nordhausen. The same address was used for packages. Hence it was important not to change camps and consequently identity numbers.
A quarter of a century ago, concentration camp Dora—also known as Mittelbau or Mittelbau-Dora—was virtually unknown in the English-speaking world. Its brief twenty-month existence at the end of World War II had been covered up or ignored by the U.S. government and the Western media because of its inconvenient connection to an American hero: the rocket engineer Wernher von Braun (1912–1977), who had helped put the first U.S. satellite in orbit and the first Americans on the moon. It took the 1979 publication of Dora, the translated memoir of a French Resistance leader and camp survivor, Jean Michel, to begin to establish this camp in the public mind. Michel’s book was influential in launching an investigation of the group of former German rocket engineers by the new Nazi-hunting unit of the U.S. Justice Department, which in turn led to the return to Germany in 1984 of one of von Braun’s chief deputies, Arthur Rudolph. Rudolph, who had served as project manager of the Apollo Saturn V moon rocket for NASA, had been production manager of the underground Mittelwerk plant that produced V2 ballistic missiles using concentration camp labor from Dora, leading to thousands of deaths. The Rudolph case spawned muckraking books and television programs by journalists in the late 1980s and early 1990s, as well as scholarly research on the rocket program and the Mittelbau-Dora camp in German, French, and English. In 1997 a second important French survivor memoir, Yves Béon’s Planet Dora, appeared in translation in this country.
EARLY ONE MORNING I RECEIVED A phone call ordering me to report immediately to the “pyre” for the purpose of bringing back to number one crematorium all the medicines and eyeglasses that had been collected there. After being sorted and classified they would be shipped to various parts of Germany.
2. Durand, La Résistance des Français à Buchenwald et à Dora, p. 186.
Like so many others in the camps, I had been an ordinary prisoner. As opposed to my father—with whom I was arrested and who was imprisoned at Buchenwald—I had not been a French Résistance leader. I held no position in the camp’s functioning. I had the good fortune to be appointed as an “electrician” in a quality control Kommando in the tunnel factory, along with others as ill qualified for the job as myself, given that I had been a history teacher in the Cambrai high school. I could just as easily have had another fate, and not have lived. Given that I had the capability to write this book, I felt that it was my responsibility to do so, quite simply, in memory of those who did not return. Perhaps the fact of “having been there” enabled me to see it through.
The twelve prisoners had attacked the patrol that had brought them back to the crematorium courtyard, in a desperate effort to seize their weapons. The twelve had had only their fists to fight with; the result had been swift and sure: all twelve had been quickly killed. But they had succeeded in badly mauling the SS guards, who now asked me to treat their wounds. I mutely carried out their orders.
Western Europeans returned home by various routes. Collective repatriation, which was more or less well organized, concerned those from Buchenwald, those at Bergen-Belsen, and those more or less scattered throughout the Schwerin region. National groups for repatriation comprised people of varying status (prisoners of war, civilian workers) in various regions, e.g., in the area of Seesen, south of Schönebeck, and in the Gardelegen area. Hospital transports, often by air, brought patients hospitalized at Dora, Bergen-Belsen, Sulingen, Halberstadt, and Schwerin back to their home countries.
On 14 February 1941, De Voogd put his wife and two sons on board the SS Tjisalak, a ship of the Java–China–Japan Line, and sent them to the Dutch East Indies – the best possible evidence that he saw no acute threat in the colony. Or did he? A month later, on 22 March 1941, Amarintia de Voogd and her two sons boarded the MS Poelau Roebiah, which took them by way of the Panama Canal to Canada. This was at the urging of Nicolaas de Voogd, who had stayed behind in Kobe.
Jerzy Bielecki, a Polish political prisoner, was on the first transport into the camp in June 1940. He remembers how the SS guards beat the prisoners all the way from the railway station to the gate of the camp: ‘There was a young boy standing next to me, maybe he was sixteen – fifteen even – and he was crying, tears were falling. And his head was cracked and blood was dripping on his face … We were afraid, we didn’t know where we were. It seemed to me that we found ourselves in hell. You cannot describe it any other way. And it turned out that this was hell.’64 Bielecki, who had been sent to Auschwitz because the Germans believed that he was a member of the Polish resistance, was put to work along with the other prisoners, building the camp.
Among the investigators, Harvard law student Eli Rosenbaum came upon the trail of Dora when reading Jean Michel’s recent book. In 1975, Jean Michel had published, along with Louis Nucera, a book entitled Dora, bearing the subtitle In the Hell of the Concentration Camp Where the Nazi Scientists Prepared for the Conquest of Space. It would have been hard to be more explicit. The subtitle reflected the emotion of the former Dora prisoners in 1966 and 1967, referred to above. The book was awarded the Résistance literary prize and was translated into English in 1979. It was well received in the United States.
Jewish refugees in Shanghai jostling to see the lists of Holocaust survivors, 1946.
In March 1933 Heinrich Himmler became acting police chief in Bavaria. By now he was also head of a specialized protection unit called the Schutzstaffel, or SS, originally formed as a group of bodyguards to protect Nazi speakers at public meetings. Himmler was in the process of turning the organization into an elite group of Nazi believers, albeit one still within the overall structure of the Stormtroopers under SA leader Ernst Röhm. Many members of the SS had been sworn in as Auxiliary Police and in this capacity staffed the first concentration camps in Bavaria.
We should add that Eastern Galicia, which passed from Polish hands to those of the Soviet Union in 1939–41, had by this time been incorporated into the General Government of Poland and thus into the Reich, even though its population was mainly Ukrainian since the Poles had been transferred to the interior of the Soviet Union. In the face of such confusion, even Krokowski limits himself to describing Janek as Polish-Ukrainian. One final point that is not without interest: the SS recruited black-uniformed Ukrainian militiamen in this region, who became guards at concentration camps. On occasion guards and prisoners would exchange a few words in Ukrainian in the Kommandos outside.
On March 13, 1950, a text was published in L’Humanité entitled “David Rousset disowned by the former German deportees who saved his life.” Among the signatories was Emil Künder, with his identity number (from Neuengamme) 21462. Pierre Daix, himself a former prisoner of Mauthausen, accused Rousset of fraud with regard to a detail of the translation of the Russian code; Rousset brought a lawsuit against Les Lettres françaises. The trial began on November 25, 1950, and concluded on January 12, 1951, with Pierre Daix’s condemnation. Meanwhile, the situation had worsened in the GDR for the former prisoners of Buchenwald.
65 Ibid., p. 237. Rees, Auschwitz, p. 54.
In mid-May 1945 there were no more prisoners from Dora-Mittelbau on location in the Mittelraum. The last of them, in need of medical repatriation, had left from the Nordhausen airfield. The others had either already gone home or were waiting to leave from the distant regions where the evacuations had taken them. Nor were there any more SS on location. The evacuations had dispersed them as well, and they were either prisoners of war or sometimes in hiding. The German communists who had been camp leaders had been liquidated by the SS—some of them at the very last moment. Tens of thousands of men who had, for the past twenty months, played a prominent role in the activity of the region had thus vanished. The concentration camp apparatus had entirely collapsed.
Charges were also laid before the French military tribunal in Rastatt against Grozdoff, who moreover did not seek to hide. Arrested on July 1, 1946, he was acquitted.29
THE LAST PRISONERS IN SCHWERIN, MALCHOW, AND RAVENSBRÜCK. After the long evacuation march from Sachsenhausen, “most of the survivors stopped in Schwerin,36 which began to look like an unsavory area.” They were housed in the arsenal, in town, or in the Adolf Hitler barracks on the outskirts. After many difficulties, repatriation began in the middle of May. It was carried out by train as far as Hagenow, then either directly by plane or by trucks to Lüneburg and Sulingen. From Sulingen there were trains. The last Frenchmen and Spanish Republicans went back by French planes from Lüneburg to Le Bourget on June 10.
The bodies were cremated in twenty minutes. Each crematorium worked with fifteen ovens, and there were four crematoriums. This meant that several thousand people could be cremated in a single day. Thus for weeks and months—even years—several thousand people passed each day through the gas chambers and from there to the incineration ovens. Nothing but a pile of ashes remained in the crematory ovens. Trucks took the ashes to the Vistula, a mile away, and dumped them into the raging waters of the river.
5 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 56, Heydrich’s directive of 2 July 1941.
A three months’ stay in the crematoriums was a school that left its mark. Without losing my temper, without even batting an eyelash, I answered him in a quiet voice.
The 967 deportees who arrived in Buchenwald on May 8 came from Breendonck, a camp set up in a fort west of Malines that was particularly harsh. They found living conditions at Buchenwald much more bearable than at Breendonck. They were assigned identity numbers in the “48,000” and “49,000” series. In May and June 1944, 502 of them were transferred to Dora, and most of them were quickly assigned to Ellrich. The Breendonck camp, which opened in September 1940, was run like all the other camps in Germany, with an SS commander, Sturmbannführer Philipp Schmitt, and guards who were members of the Flemish SS. The SS from the Walloon Legion of Léon Degrelle were not concerned by this camp. We will talk about the French SS of the Charlemagne Division in chapter 21.
FROM ONE HELL TO ANOTHER. Chapters 9 and 10 have recounted the ordinary operation of a concentration camp closely connected to a secret weapons factory in the Reich in 1944, covering the period from May to December. In May, German troops still dominated Europe, from Hendaye to Vitebsk and from the North Pole to Greece. By the end of December the Americans were in Aachen and the Soviets at the gates of East Prussia, and a German army was under siege in Budapest. The downfall of Nazi Germany was near.
58. Pierre Durand, La Résistance des Français à Buchenwald et à Dora (Paris: Messidor, 1991), pp. 29–30.
On April 12, Eisenhower visited Ohrdruf with Patton and Bradley, and he decided to alert American officials and journalists to the discoveries made in the camps. Everyone still remembers the photographs taken at the time at Nordhausen, Dora, and Gardelegen, like those at Ohrdruf and the “little camp” at Buchenwald, because for fifty years they have consistently been used to illustrate books and articles on the German concentration camps. Yet the dates and places are generally not indicated. When the names are shown, Nordhausen is necessarily mentioned more often than Dora.
The process of killing was broadly similar to that employed in the Operation Reinhard camps. New arrivals were ushered into the undressing room and told that they had to take their clothes off before having a shower. They were then directed into the gas chamber, which they were told was the shower room. Once the hermetically sealed door was closed, and everyone was trapped inside, crystals of Zyklon B were inserted through hatches in the roof (in the case of Crematoria II and III) or high in the wall (in the case of Crematoria IV and V). After everybody had been murdered, the residual gas was cleared, and Sonderkommandos entered. Only the means of gassing, Zyklon B as opposed to carbon monoxide, and the fact that the women’s hair was shaved after death rather than before, marked a significant difference from the way in which the operation was conducted in the Reinhard camps.
The site selected at Ellrich for the establishment of the concentration camp was of an entirely different nature. At the beginning it was made up of the abandoned buildings of a plaster factory with a vast tract of uncultivated land to the south of the railway line running from Herzberg to Nordhausen, near the station of the small town of Ellrich.
But no sophisticated state can function if every order is merely spoken, so on occasion it was necessary to refer to the killings in writing. As a result a whole range of euphemisms came to be associated with the destruction of the Jews. ‘Special handling’, for example, was one way in documents of referring to murder. Equally, the term ‘Final Solution’ came to mean the plan to exterminate the Jews, even though the words had initially meant only their deportation. It still held this original meaning in a document signed by Göring for Heydrich, dated 31 July 1941. ‘To supplement the task that was assigned to you,’ the document read, ‘on 24 January 1939, which dealt with the solution of the Jewish problem by emigration and evacuation in the most suitable way, I hereby charge you to submit a comprehensive blueprint of the organizational, subject-related and material preparatory measures for the execution of the intended final solution of the Jewish question.’83 We know that the ‘final solution’ mentioned in this document was not the mass extermination of the Jews in the death camps, because earlier discussions between Heydrich and Göring about a possible ‘blueprint’ for the ‘final solution’ can be traced to March 1941, at a time when the Nazis planned to deport the Jews east after the war. So by far the most convincing explanation of this July 1941 exchange is that Heydrich was still working on a plan to deport the Jews into the furthest reaches of the occupied Soviet Union, with the vast population movements necessary not taking place until the war in the east was over. This interpretation also fits with the thrust of previous Nazi wartime policy against the Jews, which was one of deportation with genocidal consequences in the medium to long term. Just as the Jews sent to Nisko in the General Government at the start of the war had died in large numbers of starvation, disease and other mistreatment, and the Jews would have perished over time had they been sent to Madagascar, so the fate of the Jews sent to the wastelands of the occupied Soviet Union would have been similarly catastrophic.
42. Cardon-Hamet, Mille Otages pour Auschwitz, p. 446.
History: images of concentration camps in
IDENTITY NUMBERS AND TRIANGLES. Up to now, “prisoner” has referred to all those interned in a concentration camp, and this will continue to be the case. It is the translation of the German word Häftling, normally used in this sense. The word “deportee” is suitable only for those who had been transferred from their country to Germany—such as the French or the Belgians. It cannot be applied to citizens of the Reich. But the word “deportee” will be used with regard to convoys leaving from Compiègne, for example.
THE CONDITIONS OF THE “TRANSPORT.” The account given by Jules Hofstein on this subject is the last in the collection entitled Témoignages strasbourgeois. He tells of the transport from Gleiwitz to Dora of evacuated prisoners from Auschwitz and its Kommandos between January 20 and February 2: “Around midnight we were rounded up and packed into iron railway cars meant for transporting coal, open to the wind. We started off toward morning. [. . .]
Near the tunnel the camp barracks were used until 1945–46, first as a place of internment and later to shelter the refugees from the Sudetenland. They were then abandoned and the materials were recovered by those nearby. This is true of the Dora, Harzungen, and Woffleben prisoners’ camps, for instance, but also of the camps that housed the SS or the German and foreign civilian workers. The area was not far from the demarcation between the Soviet and the British zones, which was ever more closely controlled. And the population was confined in the surrounding area. The camp that held up least to the destruction was Ellrich, which was, as has been mentioned, divided between the two zones. The prisoners’ blocks were in Thuringia but the various buildings of Juliushütte, where the SS were located, were in Lower Saxony along with the crematorium above the camp.
Among them was Chaim Shapiro, who was stuck in the Siberian gulag with thirty other Jewish refugees for the duration of the conflict. But, as he wrote after the war, ‘Siberia was better than Auschwitz, and 80 to 90 per cent of the prisoners survived the war.’
Niethammer (Lutz), Der “gesäuberte” Antifaschismus. Der SED und die roten Kapos von Buchenwald (Berlin: Akademie Verlag, 1994).
Others offered much the same argument, but I silently went about preparing my instruments. Seeing that their arguments had had no effect, and that I was preparing to inject the antidote, some of the men lost their tempers and spared no words as they told me what they thought of my action. Nevertheless I finished the injections and left the room. Unless he contracted pneumonia during the next five or six days, the Captain would live. Then for several weeks he would continue to stoke the furnaces that burned the bodies of thousands upon thousands of his fellow men, tortured and killed by gas. Till one day the Sonderkommando’s final hour would toll, and he and his companions would line up outside the crematorium. A machine-gun blast and all would be over. He and the others would fall, their eyes filled with horror and astonishment.
Heydrich did not finally sign the agreement with the Slovaks until 10 April, and so the initial transports sent to Auschwitz from Slovakia contained only the young and the fit. Linda Breder, an eighteen-year-old Slovakian Jewish woman, was one of the first to be forcibly deported. ‘On 24 March 1942,’ she says, ‘the Hlinka guards [the Slovak People’s Party militia] came to every house and collected all the girls from sixteen to twenty-five.’ Linda and the other girls were held in a hall in the town of Stropkov in eastern Slovakia. She wasn’t ‘scared’ because ‘they told us you are going to Germany to work and you will send money to your parents and then they will join you. So what can I feel? I was happy. Because we would work and then they will have money and then they will come with us.’43
I found information about Louis Aletrino and his three wives on the website joodsmonument.nl, the Jewish Monument, which commemorates the Jews who died in the Holocaust in the Netherlands. Jan Kamp helped me to look into all the details.
Following my visit to the SS, I proceeded upstairs to the Sonderkommando’s living quarters. While I was there I treated a few cuts and bruises, common among chauffeurs. The Sonderkommando men seldom had any organic illnesses, for their clothes were clean, their beds were provided with fresh linen, and their food was good, sometimes even excellent. Besides they were all young men, hand-picked for their strength and good physical constitution. They did have, however, a general tendency to nervous disorders, for it was a tremendous strain on them to know that their brothers, their wives, their parents—their entire race—were perishing here. Day after day they took thousands of corpses and dragged them to the crematory ovens, where they loaded them with their own hands into the incineration cases. The result was acute nervous depression, and often neurasthenia. Everybody here had a past which he looked back on with sorrow, and a future he contemplated with despair. The Sonderkommando’s future was tightly circumscribed by time. Four years’ painful experience had shown that its life span was four months. At the end of that period a company of SS appeared. The entire kommando was herded into the crematorium’s rear courtyard. A machine-gun blast. Half an hour later a new Sonderkommando squad arrived. They undressed their dead companions. An hour later only a heap of ashes remained. The first job of every Sonderkommando crew was the cremation of its predecessor. During my visits there was always someone who took me aside and begged me to give him a swift, sure poison. I invariably refused. Today I am sorry I did. They are all dead. Their death was swift and sure all right—not self-administered as they would have preferred, but at the hands of the Nazi butchers.
16. Auschwitz
However, General Otto von Stülpnagel, the German military commander in France, believed that such ‘Polish methods’ simply did not work in France.4 And the evidence on the ground seemed to support that view. There was outrage among many French citizens, for instance, at the German reprisal killing of ninety-eight hostages in Nantes in October 1941. In January 1942 Stülpnagel offered his resignation. He was particularly bitter about having to leave his job because, as he outlined in a letter to Field Marshal Keitel, he thought he had come up with a better way to deter future attacks on Germans: ‘I believed that I could accomplish the clearly necessary reprisals for assassinations of personnel by other means, i.e., through limited executions, but primarily through transporting massive numbers of Jews and Communists to the East, which, in my informed opinion, has a far more chilling effect on the French population than these mass shootings, which the French do not understand.’5
I was never convinced by the intentionalist argument, nor was I fully persuaded by the attempt to point to one moment of decision. From quite early in my interaction with this history I had seen how some people had decided that, because the crime of the extermination of the Jews was so horrendous, it must have been orchestrated and planned at one monumental moment. But it seemed to me that this was a mistaken leap. As I hope this book demonstrates, the journey to the Holocaust was a gradual one, full of twists and turns, until it found final expression in the Nazi killing factories.
When images are used to symbolize the Holocaust, it is mostly Auschwitz that is featured. The centrality of Auschwitz in the memorialization of the crime is almost ubiquitous. In Britain, the very date of Holocaust Memorial Day is the anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz. Of course, Auschwitz did, as we shall see, go on to become the most murderous death camp of them all. But there is a danger that these three Reinhard camps – Bełżec, Sobibór and Treblinka – become, if not forgotten, then somehow overlooked. The Nazis would have approved of this. They wanted no one to remember these places. But in many respects it is these camps that symbolize the singularity of the crime. It needed only a handful of Germans to direct the murder of 1.7 million people. Every one of these individuals died not because of anything they had ever done, but simply because of who their grandparents had happened to be. Once their lives had been erased, the places in which they had been murdered were erased as well. One does not see images of Bełżec, Treblinka or Sobibór in Holocaust memorialization because there are no images of the camps to show. In a way, that, as much as anything else, demonstrates the bleakness of the crime. Those who were murdered were turned to nothing, and the places where they died were turned to nothing along with them.
The Foundation is headed up by a council, the Stiftungsrat, with representatives of the Land of Thuringia, the federal state, the Nordhausen Landkreis, and the city of Weimar as well as the Central Council of the Jews of Germany. It is assisted by a Kuratorium (at the Land level) of qualified persons, historians, museum curators, and so on. This Kuratorium is itself assisted by three Beiräte, scientific councils of former prisoners, for each of the three camps: Buchenwald, Mittelbau-Dora, and the special Soviet camp. The Dora Beirat is comprised of a German Jew, a German Gypsy, an Italian, a Belgian (Van Hoey), a Dutchman (Van Dijk), and two Frenchmen (Gamier and Mialet). Mialet was elected president.
Eventually, in the spring of 1944, a railway spur would be constructed, right into the heart of Birkenau, which allowed trains to deliver transports to within easy reach of the gas chambers in Crematoria II and III. Before that transports still arrived at the ramp – the unloading area halfway between Auschwitz main camp and Auschwitz Birkenau. For many of those arriving at Auschwitz, this was the first stage in their journey to the gas chambers. Günther Ruschin, a young German Jew, remembers that when he arrived at the ramp and saw women with children separated out, ‘I was thinking, a fool that I was, that they were going into a family camp.’ Selections at the ramp were always conducted by an SS doctor. This preserved the fiction that Auschwitz was an institution governed by scientific principles – that those to be murdered were chosen not out of arbitrary vindictiveness but by medical criteria. It was a lie, of course, even in Nazi terms, as there was never any proper medical examination, merely a glance at each individual. The SS would also trick new arrivals by asking if anyone wanted a lift in a vehicle to Birkenau, rather than walk to the camp. Sometimes fit young men and women would accept the ride. But everyone who chose not to walk to the camp was sent straight to the gas chambers.23 They had, the SS thought, betrayed their weakness and so did not deserve to live.
By the time the Jews from Łódź arrived at Auschwitz Birkenau in the summer of 1944 the camp contained inmates from many different countries, including Italy, Belgium, Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, France, Slovakia and Greece. Jews had even been sent to Auschwitz from the Channel Islands. But it was the deportations from one particular place that came to dominate the camp during 1944 – Hungary. And, for a whole variety of reasons, the history of the extermination of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews at Birkenau sheds light on the unparalleled nightmare of the Holocaust.
74 Longerich, Holocaust, pp. 162–4.
As for the other prisoners in the Dora-Mittelbau complex, they left on foot in columns of various numbers. On April 4 the columns from Kleinbodungen headed to the north, while that of Gandersheim—dependent on Buchenwald—went east. At the same time the prisoners from the Osterhagen, Nüxei, and Mackenrode Kommandos left to regroup in Wieda. A large column from Harzungen set out on April 4 as well; and those from Rottleberode, Rossla, and Kelbra on April 5. Their destinies proved very different.
After Israel had been at Birkenau for about three weeks, one dramatic event convinced him that his mother, father and younger brother had been murdered. On the night of 2 August, he heard ‘screaming and crying … and dogs barking’. The noise came from the direction of the Gypsy camp, near his own prison barracks. And ‘in the morning there were no Gypsies in the camp.’ Overnight, following orders from Himmler, the entire Gypsy camp had been liquidated – around 2,800 Roma and Sinti had been murdered. ‘Then I realized’, says Israel, ‘that if they do that to the Gypsies, they would do that to us – or they have done it to us. And gradually it came to our mind that, yes, those people who were not able to work, they went to the gas chambers.’
The Nazis did not hide the concentration camps. Their existence was well known and newspapers across the world carried stories about them. On 1 January 1934, for instance, the Manchester Guardian accurately described the reality of life in the so-called bunker in Dachau: ‘The cells are of concrete, they have one barred window each (which can be darkened), they are damp, and without heating arrangements.’ The article also revealed the nature of the beatings that the guards administered: ‘This consists of flogging with an ox-hide thong that has a strip of steel, three or four millimetres wide, running along its whole length (these are made by the prisoners). The blows – the number varies from twenty-five to seventy-five according to the sentence – are counted out by an SS man. Two other SS men hold the prisoner down, one by the hands and the other by the head, round which a sack is wrapped so that the prisoner’s cries are stifled … Some prisoners have also been beaten with lengths of rubber hosepipe. Some have been burnt with cigarette ends and some have been put to what Americans call the “water torture”.’52
At Auschwitz, the arrival of the Hungarian Jews in the spring and summer of 1944 led to the most intense period of killing in the history of the camp. Around 430,000 Jews from Hungary were transported to Auschwitz between May and July 1944.24 The majority of them were killed on arrival, with the proportion selected for immediate death varying between 70 and 90 per cent of each transport. To accommodate the vast numbers to be killed, large cremation pits were dug near crematoria/gas chambers IV and V, not far from the original improvised Birkenau extermination centres in the Little Red House and Little White House.
INDIVIDUAL CRIMES OR COLLECTIVE RESPONSIBILITY? When one looks closely at what happened at Dora during the first few months, it is striking to note the low number of individual acts directly causing a man’s death. There were certainly executions by hanging, but in small number, not more, so to speak, than in the everyday life of a normal concentration camp. Of the some seven hundred French dead, not one had been executed.
Although a large number of people had participated in the riot, only a handful of Stormtroopers were ever put on trial. In June 1934 the district court at Ansbach also decided that – despite evidence to the contrary – both the Jews who died had committed suicide. So the defendants only had to face charges of breach of the peace and causing minor injuries. Five of the defendants were discharged, seventeen received sentences of between three and seven months in jail, and Bär was told he would go to prison for ten months. None of those found guilty were taken into custody straight away, and on 21 August 1934 every sentence – apart from Bär’s – was quashed on appeal.
Jules Bouvet40—a schoolteacher from a village in the Orne region—did nothing but moving work “with buckets, spades, and carts” at the Buchenwald quarry from December 1943 to March 1944, at Dora from March to August 1944, and at Ellrich from August 1944 until March 1945. Exhausted, he was in the Harzungen Revier at the time of the evacuation in April.
“Published in association with the United States Holocaust Museum.”
While still remaining a concentration camp in keeping with the norms for all camps as defined by Eicke in 1942, the camp at Auschwitz actually became an extermination camp for Jews of various origins: first from Slovakia, then France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Greece (particularly from Salonica), and also—to some extent—from Poland. The final large convoys came from Hungary in the spring of 1944, sent by Eichmann. In the Auschwitz compound—which comprised in fact three camps—Jewish men and women who had escaped the gas chambers during the selections were put to work under often severe conditions. A special camp for Gypsies was also established at Auschwitz.
IN MY ROLE OF SONDERKOMMANDO doctor, I was making my morning rounds. All four crematoriums were working at full blast. Last night they had burned the Greek Jews from the Mediterranean island of Corfu, one of the oldest communities of Europe. The victims were kept for twenty-seven days without food or water, first in launches, then in sealed box cars. When they arrived at Auschwitz’s unloading platform, the doors were unlocked, but no one got out and lined up for selection. Half of them were already dead, and the other half in a coma. The entire convoy, without exception, was sent to number two crematorium.
Roger Abada,16 a “45,000” from Auschwitz—having arrived at Dora from Gross Rosen in February—gave a very similar account: “I hid in a sort of irrigation canal. After the bombing, came the machine gunning in a dive. I got through it, I don’t know how.” Everyone reacted as best he could. Gaillard ran off into the countryside looking for haystacks and woods in which to hide.17 As did Hofstein and four friends18 as well as Poupault and Bordier, after having given up on finding Boyer.
CONVOYS FROM BUCHENWALD AND DORA. Examining the convoys that came to Buchenwald, most of them heading for Dora, between June 1943 and January 1944, makes it possible to appreciate the mechanisms of the transformation in the life of the camps.
The Dora camp and tunnel, the Helmetalbahn Kommandos and work sites, the Harzungen, Ellrich, and Woffleben camps along with the new Kohnstein and Himmelberg work sites made up a coherent geographical whole, with numerous exchanges of both healthy and ailing prisoners. But beginning in the spring of 1944 other Kommandos were set up in the area, all round the Harz Mountains, out of Buchenwald. Some of them were later brought under the dependency of Neuengamme. In the autumn of 1944 still others were linked to Dora, Ellrich, and Harzungen, making up Mittelbau. The rest continued to depend on Buchenwald.
The similarities between the process of killing at the euthanasia centres in the Reich in 1940 and the death camps in Nazi-occupied Poland in 1942 were many and varied, as we shall see. Not only were the techniques of killing much the same, but so were a number of the personnel. Present at the first experimental killing at Brandenburg euthanasia centre in January 1940 were two men who in different ways would help shape the Holocaust. The first was a medical professional, Dr Irmfried Eberl, who was the director of the Brandenburg killing centre. He was a twenty-nine-year-old Austrian, born in Bregenz and educated at Innsbruck University. Eberl’s life was devoted to the Nazi cause, from the trivial – he sported a Hitler moustache and wore his hair slicked back – to the criminal – he was intimately involved in the murders conducted in Brandenburg. Eberl ‘always considered’ it ‘his responsibility’51 to turn on the gas valve, according to the testimony of his deputy, Aquilin Ullrich. Another member of the staff at Brandenburg, who was a keen gardener, said that Dr Eberl had told him that just as ‘all weeds needed to be destroyed’ so ‘people not worthy to live ought to disappear.’52 A different T4 official said that Dr Eberl was so enthusiastic about his task that he ‘wanted to gas all the world and his brother’.53
83 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 67.
69 Previously unpublished testimony, and Rees, Auschwitz, p. 71.
THE BERGEN-BELSEN CAMP IN EARLY APRIL 1945. A brief glance at the history of Bergen-Belsen is necessary to understand what transpired at the camp in April and May 1945 and the complexity of its concentration camp population. Bergen-Belsen was located in the center of Lower Saxony just west of the road from Hanover to Hamburg that crosses the Lüneburger Heide, the Lüneburg moor. It was a poor region that had always been used to house military training camps, and even today one of the largest in Germany is located there, in the area west of the small town of Bergen. Belsen is a village situated slightly to the south, which belongs to the town of Bergen. Barracks were built there to house troops on maneuvers.
For the past several days a woman’s kommando of about 500 road workers had been busy not far from the crematorium gate. They were guarded by two SS and four police dogs. Their job consisted of carrying rocks to be used in the construction of a road. Several men from the Sonderkommando, with the permission of their own guards, approached the two SS guarding the women and slipped them each a pack of cigarettes. With that the deal was concluded. Then three or four women, loaded with stones, walked over to our gate, as if their work had brought them there, and immediately gathered up all the clothing that had been prepared for them. They also got some bread, bacon and cigarettes. In turn, they were replaced by others in the kommando, till each had received her share. There was never any favoritism shown by the Sonderkommando, for none of us knew any of the women personally. Overjoyed with their “presents,” they returned to their work. The next day a different group replaced them and the same scene was re-enacted.
Direct family members – parents, brothers, sisters, and children – cannot submit nominations for the title of Righteous Among the Nations. Jan urged survivors to put their stories in writing and send them to Yad Vashem, the Holocaust Martyrs’ and Heroes’ Remembrance Authority in Jerusalem. He had gradually come to see it as his sacred mission to win the recognition internationally that his father had never received in the Netherlands.
Conditions on the march out of Auschwitz were life-threatening. Dario Gabbai, another Sonderkommando who had managed to join the exodus, remembers that ‘The German Army was killing anyone who couldn’t walk.’27 Silvia Veselá, a Slovakian Jew who had spent more than two years in Auschwitz, confirms that ‘Those who couldn’t go further were shot dead. We were all mixed up, men and women. The road was covered in dead …’28
Bełżec functioned as a killing centre from March 1942 until the end of 1942. No one knows exactly how many people died at Bełżec, but one reliable estimate is that between 450,000 and 550,000 lost their lives there. The vast majority of them were Polish Jews, though a number of Sinti and Roma also perished in the Bełżec gas chambers. Only a handful – some reports say just two – of those sent to Bełżec managed to survive the war. That marks another difference with Auschwitz. For a variety of reasons – not least that the complex of camps we know collectively today as Auschwitz were both work and death camps, and Auschwitz was never focused entirely on the destruction of the Jews – many thousands of people survived incarceration there. But virtually the only chance of emerging from Bełżec alive was to be one of the tiny number selected to work in the camp on arrival and then somehow to effect an escape.
Whatever the case may be, the members of this team played a key role in gaining understanding of the German concentration camp system, by getting Eugen Kogon to write L’État SS. In the introduction to the book, Kogon tells how, in response to their questioning, he ended up writing a report as early as May 1945, in Buchenwald itself, which he had confirmed by fifteen camp leaders, both communist and noncommunist. The interest of this report—passed along by Rosenberg—led British and American leaders to push Kogon to write a book for the general public, extending the subject from the camp at Buchenwald to all the camps. Kogon, housed along with his family in the Frankfurt area, finished the book in November 1945.9 Der SS Staat was published in Germany in 1946 and translated into French in 1947 under the title L’Enfer organisé (Organized Hell). It has remained the basic reference on the camps and was reprinted in France under its real title, L’État SS, in 1970 and later in 1993. As for the Buchenwald Report itself, it got lost in the archives before being later published in the United States, in 1995, from a copy kept by Rosenberg—who himself went on to become a professor at the University of Texas at El Paso. He will be mentioned again in the epilogue.
70 Longerich, Holocaust, pp. 106–7.
61 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, pp. 231–2.
16 Ilana Rosen, Sisters in Sorrow: Life Histories of Female Holocaust Survivors from Hungary, Wayne State University Press, 2008, pp. 192–3.
With Horthy out of the way and Hungary in the hands of fascists, the Jews were vulnerable once again. On 18 October Eichmann began discussions with Szálasi about deporting Jews – not this time to Auschwitz, but direct to the Reich as forced labourers. Eichmann’s problem was that there was no means of transporting tens of thousands of Jews to the west. But he came up with a solution. If the Jews could not be carried by railway or truck, then they could walk – for more than a hundred miles. By the end of November, 27,000 Jews were walking to the Reich and 40,000 more were supposed to follow them. Conditions on the march were, predictably, appalling. Indeed, they were so bad that when a group of SS officers passed the marching Jews they were so concerned about what they saw that they complained to Otto Winkelmann, Higher SS and Police Chief for Hungary. Incredibly, one of those who voiced their objections was Rudolf Höss, one-time commandant of Auschwitz and now in an administrative role in the SS. It wasn’t that Höss had suddenly developed a sense of humanity, but that he didn’t see the value in sending Jews to the Reich who, when they arrived, couldn’t work.18 Another SS officer, Kurt Becher, who had been involved in the negotiations about the Hungarian Jews earlier in the year, complained to Himmler about Eichmann’s actions. This led to an extraordinary meeting in Himmler’s private train in the Black Forest in November 1944. Himmler told Eichmann to stop deporting the Budapest Jews, adding, ‘If until now you have exterminated Jews, from now on, if I order you, you must be a fosterer of Jews.’19
After much debate, a “French commission of inquiry against the concentration-camp regime” was created on January 24, 1950, demanding the creation of an international commission to lead an inquiry in Spain, Greece, and Yugoslavia as well as in the USSR. The president of the French commission was a former deportee to Buchenwald, A. S. Balachowsky (who was mentioned in chapter 13).
Only a few refugees remained in Shanghai, young men who thought, Well, why not here? They married Chinese women or descendants of the first, nineteenth-century wave of Jewish immigrants. Max Leibovich was part of this small group. He died in Shanghai on 15 January 1982, at the age of seventy-five. In his last years, he no longer remembered his place of birth. Parkinson’s disease had demolished his memory; he thought at first that he came from Russia and later from Lithuania. But his name is not on any list, including Sonja Mühlberger’s comprehensive database – still more evidence that many refugees were not registered anywhere.
Several prisoners were saved by being transferred to the Dora Revier in rather unusual conditions, such as Stéphane Hessel’s two liaison agents, Jacques Brun and Jean-Pierre Couture. Brun responded as follows to a recent questionnaire:74 “Ellrich. Was admitted into the Revier in late October 1944 with dysentery, pleurisy, bronchitis, 40°C of fever under the arm. At that time, there was no medication, no doctors or nurses worthy of the name. Was evacuated to Dora with the transport of corpses to be burned in the crematorium, on a day that their number was insufficient, my survival being considered a matter of mere days, if not hours. Arrived late at night, after the lights had been put out.” It was then that the Dutch doctor looked after him. Brun remained in the Dora Revier until the camp was evacuated.
They were indeed pitiful to behold, standing there in dirty rags, dumb from the ill-treatment to which they had been subjected, mortally afraid, and feeling both clumsy and embarrassed by their change of environment. They too had left all hope behind them when they had passed through the crematorium gate.
Events surged forward at a dizzying pace. The Germans felt confined by their borders and longed for Lebensraum. The first to fall prey were the Czechs. Chamberlain set out to Munich, but his umbrella of peace did not provide the protection he had hoped. In March 1939, the Memel Territory adjoining Lithuania was reunited with Germany. Germany also wanted a free hand in Danzig, but the Poles refused, supported by England and France. Germany and Italy forged a military alliance, and on 23 August the foreign ministers of Germany and Russia, Joachim von Ribbentrop and Vyacheslav Molotov, made a pact of non-aggression between the two countries. On 1 September 1939, German forces invaded Poland. Two days later, England and France declared war on Hitler’s Germany. On 17 September the Russians, deciding to play it safe, occupied the east of Poland. Ten days later, Warsaw fell into German hands. Lithuania found itself in an awkward position, sandwiched between two totalitarian powers. It had always been faced with the fallout of war: Russian refugees from 1917 to 1920 and then multitudes of Volksdeutsche from the impoverished post-war Reich. Now Polish Jews on the run from the German armies were fleeing into the country. As the large neighbouring countries changed their positions on the Baltic states, there were corresponding shifts within Lithuania. At first, Russia limited its ambitions to Finland, Latvia, and Estonia, allowing the Germans to cast a covetous eye on Lithuania’s territory. As a result, the Reich citizens living in the country were soon parading around in brown Nazi uniforms. As the German war machine rolled on, the Russians developed a new interest in Lithuania. When they made treaties with the three Baltic states, the Germans living there started to keep a slightly lower profile.
62 http://www.buchenwald.de/en/457/.
27 Testimony of Emilio Büge, Sachsenhausen Museum, and Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, pp. 262–5.
On the third day of our stay an SS officer, accompanied by a general, visited our barracks and ordered anyone who had formerly worked in the Auschwitz KZ to step forward.
In writing the Jours de notre mort, Rousset acknowledges having used two German documents. The first, published in Weimar under the supervision of former communist prisoners and prefaced by Ernst Busse, was entitled Konzentrationslager Buchenwald. The other was the German manuscript of Eugen Kogon’s work, Der SS Staat. As indicated in chapter 3, Kogon had first of all, at the request of the team from the American Psychological Warfare Division, written—in Buchenwald itself—a report subsequently known as The Buchenwald Report. He then set himself up near Frankfurt and wrote, on that basis, Der SS Staat, a book devoted to the camps in general but which is based especially on the example of Buchenwald. Finished in November 1945, the book was published in Germany in 1946. It was translated into French in 1947 and entitled L’Enfer organisé, then in English in 1950 as The Theory and Practice of Hell.
38 Rees, Auschwitz, pp. 214–15.
Hessel,10 assuming the identity of the cutter Michel Boitel, and with identity number 81626, was assigned to Rottleberode via Schönebeck. His knowledge of German enabled him to become a Buchführer—that is, an accountant. He then remained in the camp before returning to the factory, thanks to two Prominente, the Kapo Walter and the Schreiber Ulbricht, politicians who explained the rules of concentration camp life to him.
However, by this point Himmler seems to have been less concerned with his ‘political reputation’ among the Nazi elite, and a great deal more interested in how he might be perceived by the victorious powers. He ignored Hitler’s instructions and instead decided to intensify his contacts with the West. During February and March 1945 he met with Count Folke Bernadotte of the Swedish Red Cross and discussed sending Scandinavian prisoners held in concentration camps to Sweden. Himmler’s personal masseur and physical therapist, Felix Kersten, played a part in lobbying Himmler to release not just the Scandinavian prisoners – both Jews and non-Jews – but also large numbers of Jews of other nationalities. It was in this context that Himmler wrote a bizarre letter to Kersten in the middle of March, in which he revealed how he would try and explain his previous actions to any representative of the Jews. He said that he had always wanted to allow Jews to move safely to the West ‘until the war and the irrationality unleashed by it’ made this policy impossible. He now wanted ‘all differences’ to be put to one side so that ‘wisdom and rationality’ and ‘the desire to help’ would appear in their place.50
The distance between Dora and Bergen-Belsen is 94 miles as the crow flies, which corresponds roughly to 106 miles by train. The fact that it took between four and six days to cover that distance shows that the situation was by no means simple. First, all the convoys made a detour via Hamburg, which shows what their original destination must have been. It was quite specifically the Neuengamme camp, which was supposed to receive all the prisoners evacuated from Dora-Mittelbau. Similarly, the camp at Flossenbürg, and then Dachau, were supposed to accommodate all the prisoners from Buchenwald, which will be discussed later.
Hunger dominated the lives of millions who lived under Nazi occupation in the summer and autumn of 1941. True to the intentions they had expressed in secret that spring, the Nazis murdered those they despised not just by the bullet and the gas chamber, but by starvation. This does not mean, however, that the Nazis had the same attitude to killing Soviet POWs as they did to killing Jews. The mental process that allowed them to justify the murders was different. Wolfgang Horn, for example, was a typical soldier in that while he regarded the Soviets ‘as uncivilized, nearly savages’, he thought the Jews were not ‘savages’ but intelligent. Horn had been told that the Jews were ‘ruling Russia’ and were also the reason that the Germans had lost the First World War.74
The Germans, having already deported 430,000 Jews from Hungary to Auschwitz, were prepared to pause before deporting the rest. After all, this was just one setback the Nazis faced that summer among many. They had to deal not just with the desperate situation on the front line, but with a crisis at the top of the Nazi state when, on 20 July, disaffected Wehrmacht officers tried to kill Hitler by exploding a bomb at his headquarters in East Prussia. Hitler was not seriously hurt, but the search for the perpetrators now became an immediate priority for the German security services.
56 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, p. 140.
Their whole outlook on life was a lie. Their daughters and war widows could bear children by any man and receive the thanks of the State for doing so. Children so born could take the name their mother chose for them from among the names of those men, often numerous, to whom she had given herself. The multiplication of the race demanded it. Their cynicism was complete and terrible: details, like the lying signs outside the underground chambers of the crematoriums that announced in seven languages, “BATHS,” whereas in reality they were gas chambers; the boxes of cyclon gas,5 which were labeled, “POISON: FOR THE DESTRUCTION OF PARASITES,” the parasites being, of course, the untold thousands of innocent Jews murdered in the space of a few minutes. Who knows just how far the lie went? Perhaps indeed the signs on the KZ’s electric barbed wire also lied; perhaps there was really no 6,000-volt current running through it. But no, that was no lie, for I remembered having seen Oberschaarführer Mussfeld’s giant wolfhound run into the fence one day, at a point not far from the crematorium gate, and die instantly, electrocuted.
At the time the average prisoner himself knew nothing about this, even those who belonged to the Kommandos least exposed in the tunnel factory. Moreover, this had no direct consequences on their lot. The decision to make “Dora-Mittelbau” (according to the established wording) into an autonomous concentration camp served only to convey a powerful reality—that is, the concentration of the major underground secret weapons factory and the largest work-site complex of the Sonderstab Kammler, in the same geographical zone of the Mittelraum.
Franz Rosenbach, also from a Sinti family, was fifteen when he was sent with his mother to Auschwitz Birkenau. He remembers that when he arrived at the camp he was shocked that he and his mother had to get completely undressed in front of each other. ‘I don’t know if you know that we have our own customs,’ he says. ‘A mother would never get undressed in front of her children, nor would the father. There is some kind of sense of shame and respect. But in this instance, we were forced to do it. We were undressed and I called out, “Mum, where are you?” She was standing behind me, she was hiding behind me. And when her hair was cut off – her braid – I wanted to go and grab it. So I was hit a few more times on the back with a rubber truncheon or something like that, some kind of hosepipe. You know, it was a sight that you cannot imagine. The SS came in with a cane and hit the men’s penises, making a point of [saying] … please excuse the expression, I can’t say it, something like “Gypsy dick” or whatever you call it … that kind of thing, derogatory terms, discriminatory terms.’40
While all other accounts of the concentration camps that have come to my attention were by persons who never willingly served the SS, to my knowledge Dr. Nyiszli’s is the only report written by one of the many concentration camp prisoners who volunteered to become a tool of the SS to stay alive. But having made his choice, Dr. Nyiszli had, after all, to delude himself at times to be able to live with himself and his experience. And herein lies the true importance of this document for the protection that understanding can offer. Because even in the overpowering setting of Auschwitz, certain defenses still served life, not the death instinct. Most important of these was understanding what went on in oneself, and why. With enough understanding, the individual did not fool himself into believing that saving his skin was the same as saving the total self. He was able to recognize that much of what apparently seemed protective was actually self destroying.
With regard to Dora and Mittelwerk, I am much indebted to three authors: the Polish prisoner Wincenty Hein, who prepared the case with the Americans for the 1947 trial; the German historian Manfred Bornemann, who situated our adventure in the history and geography of the region; and my friend Joachim Neander, who critically examined the available sources on how Mittelbau functioned and how the evacuation process was carried out. I refer to the classic works on the deportation, with which I was already familiar. I was careful not to go into overly great depth in the study of Buchenwald. But a total dissociation of the two camps was not conceivable.
16. Auschwitz (1943–1944)
As was customary in this type of meeting, the lack of manpower was used to explain some of the problems, and it was not surprising that Kammler was asked to provide eighteen hundred additional prisoners. The latter ignored the request in any event, as the prisoners sent from Buchenwald at the time went on to Ell-rich, Harzungen, or Wieda.
Amid the vast numbers arriving at Birkenau, individual members of the SS felt free to indulge their sadistic imagination. Morris Venezia, one of the Jewish Sonderkommandos working in the crematoria, remembers that two young Jewish sisters and their friend asked one of the SS men if they could be killed together. He was ‘very happy’ to do as they asked, and in the process thought that he would try and see if he could kill all three of them with one bullet. He placed them in a line and pulled the trigger. All three girls collapsed and appeared to be dead. ‘Right away,’ says Morris, ‘we took them and threw them in the flames [of the open pit]. And then we heard some kind of screaming [from the pit].’ It transpired that one of the girls had only fallen down and had not been killed, so now she was burnt alive. ‘And that German officer was so happy because he killed two of them at least with one shot. These animals … No human brain can believe that or understand it. It’s impossible to believe it. But we saw it.’25
In the spring of 1944, Kammler, who had just finished the underground construction for the rocket-building program, both in the Dora Tunnel and at Lehesten and Redl-Zipf, embarked upon new underground and surface work sites, making use of an abundant concentration camp labor force. These work sites opened throughout what was then the territory of the Reich except on the north German plain. Some were located in the area around the Harz Mountains, particularly in the Dora area.
Let it suffice to mention the existence in the same geographical zone as Stassfurt and Wansleben of various Kommandos on Buchenwald, which will come up once again at the time of the evacuations. It is the case in particular of the Schönebeck Kommando south of Magdeburg, which remained sizable in spite of the transfers to Rottleberode. It was also the case for Flöha,30 near Chemnitz, where the poet Robert Desnos was prisoner and which depended on Flossenbürg.
It seems that he was the one who persuaded Förschner and Pister, the Buchenwald commander who came to inspect Dora, to designate two communist leaders, Joseph Gamisch and Christian Beham, who were sent from Buchenwald to become LÄ1 and 2. These men were of higher caliber than Thomas and Sczymczak. Later accounts by Czechs and Poles were favorable to them. Apparently the objective was to put the Dora camp under an authority comparable to the one imposed at Buchenwald. It would seem that in order to ensure the smooth running of the factory, the workers were to be properly treated in the camp. Another communist leader, Fritz Pröll, simultaneously arrived from Buchenwald at the Dora Revier.
Most of the German and Austrian Jews who went to Shanghai had spent several months, or in some cases even years, as prisoners in Dachau or Buchenwald. They were sent away to make room for the thousands of Jews taken captive on Kristallnacht, the Night of Broken Glass, a massive anti-Semitic pogrom that had taken place on 9–10 November 1938. In Germany, Austria, and the Sudetenland, 1,400 synagogues and 7,500 shops had been set on fire or demolished, and thirty thousand young Jewish men had been arrested and sent to concentration camps. The released Jews, mostly political prisoners, had to pledge to the Gestapo that they would leave Germany and Austria at once. They had seen enough of the concentration camps that they did not hesitate a single day. Aside from ten marks and a few personal effects, they were not allowed to take anything with them. Even so, the Lloyd Triestino Line could hardly handle the glut of passengers. The shipping company offices in Vienna and Berlin normally demanded from each passenger not only the price of the ticket but also a deposit of US$150 or more, for incidental expenses on the voyage. The company waived this required deposit for the Jewish passengers, because even their wedding rings were not safe when they crossed the Austrian–Italian border; Gestapo agents conducted thorough body searches, robbing the refugees of any remaining valuables.
Oranienburg 1933–1935, Sachsenhausen 1936–1945 (Bezaut)
18. The main camp at Auschwitz, a place originally designed to strike terror into the hearts of Poles in the surrounding area, with the first mass transport of prisoners arriving in June 1940. The words ‘Arbeit Macht Frei’ (Work makes you free), made infamous by their use here, had previously been emblazoned on a gate at Dachau in the 1930s.
On September 14, 1944, a Kommando of five hundred prisoners that had arrived from France by the Rethondes convoy of August 18 left Buchenwald. It arrived at Neu Stassfurt, in Germany’s large potash-salt production region. There were two mine shafts, shaft 6 and shaft 7, and the plan was to transform the mines, located at a depth of between 1,300 and 1,500 feet, into underground factories. This fell into the framework of the Sonderstab Kammler’s A-type projects. The work got under way at the same time as did the work at Blankenburg, whereas Langenstein was contemporary with Ellrich and Harzungen.
38. The number of Jews in the “evacuation transports” from Auschwitz and Gross-Rosen is difficult to establish on the basis of the rudimentary prisoner lists. According to careful estimates it is likely that at least a fourth of sixteen thousand “evacuees” were Jewish.
Before the war, few Jews were sent to Mauthausen. The inmates were primarily those the Nazis claimed were ‘incorrigible’ criminals or ‘antisocials’. But that policy changed in 1941 when hundreds of Dutch Jews were deported to the camp in reprisal for acts of resistance in the Netherlands. Most of these Dutch Jews were dead in a matter of weeks. So dreadful was the experience for the Dutch Jews at Mauthausen that the Nazis in the Netherlands subsequently used the place as a threat – if the Jews did not agree to be deported to the east, then more Jews would be sent to Mauthausen. The reality of this Austrian concentration camp was therefore presented as a more terrifying prospect than the unknown fate that awaited the Dutch Jews if they boarded the deportation trains. The Nazis themselves even recognized the special brutality of Mauthausen. When Reinhard Heydrich had split concentration camps into categories, Mauthausen had been placed in the most severe group of all. Thus while many inmates in Birkenau longed to be selected for a transport out of Auschwitz, simply leaving the Auschwitz zone of interest was no guarantee that their prospects of survival would improve.
25 BArch NS 33/89, p. 41, The Reichsführer SS (SS-HA/ZK./Az. B 17a), Berlin, 11 April 1938, regarding selection of candidates as SS leaders, mailing list V. Also see Tom Segev, Soldiers of Evil: The Commandants of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Diamond Books, 2000, p. 97.
In April 1945 the strategic withdrawal of the exterior Kommandos to the main camp exacerbated its overcrowding. Newcomers who arrived from the west were comparatively few. It is a fact that the train from Ellrich ended directly at the Heinkel factory, but Dutillieux, who came on foot from Rossla, understood only that he had arrived at “Oranienburg-Sachsenhausen.” He was given a six-figure identity number, which he “hastened to forget.” Wautrecht,6 who arrived from Ellrich, remembers that his was 138551. Lafond’s was 138148.
IT WAS WITH HESITATION THAT I ACCEPTED the invitation to write a foreword to this book. Auschwitz, beyond doubt, is an honest book, and an important one. It tells of events which, though gruesome, need to be told and retold until their meaning for our times is accepted. It is not a book of direct insight into the meaning of the extermination camps, but in the fate of the author lies much of its significance. Least of all, despite the author’s claim, is it the book of a physician. Other physicians have written other books about their experiences in the concentration camps: for example, the psychiatrist Dr. Victor E. Frankl, who also wrote of Auschwitz. But Frankl did not help the SS in their experimentation on human beings; he did not pervert his calling by joining those who have aptly been called doctors of infamy. Instead of helping SS doctors in the killing of people, he suffered as a human being. Speaking of his experiences, he quotes Hebbel: “There are things which must cause one to lose one’s reason, or one has none to lose.” One of Dr. Nyiszli’s fellow doctors did lose his reason, and the description of how it happened is not only one of the most moving parts of the book, but one of the most reassuring. There were, and still are, people who lose their reason when there is sufficient cause to do so.
12 Figures from Zuccotti, Italians and the Holocaust, p. xxv. Note this is the figure for those who died. The estimate on p. 274 is for the number deported to Auschwitz.
Only a small percentage of those sent to Auschwitz in 1940 were Jewish, but just as in camps within the pre-war borders of the Reich, Jews who were imprisoned in Auschwitz were liable to suffer appallingly. Kazimierz Ablin, who was also on the first transport into Auschwitz in June 1940, remembers that the Germans ‘fished out’ any Jews from among the prisoners, along with ‘priests and monks’ who ‘were treated almost as badly as the Jews’.66
Notwithstanding the difficulties the SS encountered in disposing of the bodies, the creation of the Little Red House meant that they could murder larger numbers of ‘unproductive’ Jews than before. Especially when, a few weeks after the killings began in the Little Red House, another cottage about a hundred yards away, known as the ‘Little White House’, was converted in a similar way into gas chambers.
In any case, an electrified barricade henceforth prohibited passage. The whole border area, extending three miles back, was a prohibited zone, a Sperrgebiet. No border crossing was open to traffic between the GDR and the FRG between Helmstedt, well to the north of the Harz Mountains, all the way to Duderstadt far to the south. In June 1989, Van Hoey had to pass through Worbis and Duderstadt—in other words, a sixty-mile detour—to go from Ellrich to Walkenried.3 The hill that overlooked the former camp, with its crematorium on the other side of the barricade, was overgrown with vegetation.
“It’s all over,” he said. “The Russians are barely 40 kilometers from Auschwitz. The whole of Germany is in exodus on the highways. Everybody is leaving the frontier areas to seek refuge in the West.”
THE AMERICANS AT THE DORA CAMP. On April 11, 1945, as noted, an American jeep arrived at the Dora camp. The soldiers toured the camp, found the Revier, and went off in search of help, which arrived the following morning at daybreak, according to Maho.4 Military trucks came, “loaded with medicines, bandages, anesthetics and sterile instruments.” Then “in perfect order, a column of German health workers arrived in the camp. They had come to do our chores, change our bandages and clean our Blocks. [ . . . ] The first graves were dug.” The crematorium was no longer in operation.
By June 1942, the first death factories of the Holocaust were in place, and the Nazis had created a method of killing that allowed them to murder in considerable numbers and experience little psychological torment. What they sought now were large numbers of Jews to kill. But since the Nazis could not find every foreign Jew for themselves, they needed willing collaborators. The story of how they acquired them is one of the most troubling parts of this whole history.
At Peenemünde, the first 200 prisoners to arrive from Buchenwald, on June 20, were Germans and Russians. On July 11 the next convoy of 400 was made up essentially of French prisoners, bearing identity numbers in the “14,000” series (see chapter 4), who had arrived at Buchenwald in June.34 In Wiener Neustadt, 500 prisoners arrived on June 20 from the Mauthausen camp. They arrived on June 22 at the Zeppelin factories in Friedrichshafen from Dachau. On August 14, another Kommando from Dachau was established in Saulgau, in the Upper Swabia, to manufacture for Zeppelin demifuselages for the V2s, intended to be put together at Peenemünde, and then at Dora.35
54 Verhandlungen des Deutschen Reichstags, vol. 395, docs 13717–18, 24 March 1928. Also in Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2010, p. 15.
concentration camp debate
44 Patrick Montague, Chełmno and the Holocaust, I. B. Tauris, 2012, p. 162.
3. Amicale d’Oranienburg-Sachsenhausen, Sachso (Paris: Plon, 1982), pp. 446–47.
It should not be assumed, however, that the Americans were interested only in the corpses and the moribund. Already on April 16, 1945, as Eugen Kogon recounts, “an Intelligence Team from the Psychological Warfare Division arrived in the camp at Buchenwald.”7 “Its mission was to study the living conditions and to show, in a comprehensive report addressed to the SHAEF (Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Expeditionary Forces), how a German concentration camp was set up, what role it played in the national-socialist state, and what the fate of those placed by the Gestapo in these SS-guarded camps had been. Buchenwald was the first large concentration camp to fall intact into the hands of the Western Allied Forces. It was to serve as an example for studying the system prior to this institution.”
55 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 114.
In this matter there arises also the question of the number of victims among Nacht und Nebel (NN) inmates, whom the SS often were predisposed to kill. According to a December 7, 1941, OKW decree by Keitel, resistance suspects in the occupied areas of Western Europe were not to be tried in their countries of origin but were to be taken, in total isolation, “bei Nacht und Nebel” (by night and fog), across the border to Germany.42 By 1942, but especially in the last year of war, nearly all NN inmates in prisons and in the “Sonderlager” Hinzert were transferred to the concentration camps; most of them were sent to Natzweiler and Gross-Rosen.43 As Verschwundene (the “disappeared,” as one may call them today in reference to the Latin America term), they were always under very immediate threat of death and could hardly hope ever to see their families again.
Jorge Semprun, in Quel beau dimanche! published in 1980, talks about a dreaded transport being organized at Buchenwald with its destination as Dora.5 He writes: “A terrible camp, Dora! It was a work site where they were digging the tunnels of an underground factory for manufacturing V1s and V2s.” He came back to this topic in 1994 in L’Écriture ou la vie:6 “Dora was the work site of an underground factory where V1 and V2 missiles were going to be produced. It was a hellish work site, where the prisoners were driven like slaves to perform exhausting work, in the dust of the tunnels, by the Sturmführer SS themselves, without any other intermediaries between themselves and the deportees than the common-law prisoners who added an extra dose of stupidity and brutality to consolidate their power. In short, avoiding Dora meant avoiding death. Or avoiding, at least, increased chances of dying.” Semprun believes that the fact of being classified at the time as a stucco layer saved him from a transport to Dora. His identity number was 44904, and he had arrived at Buchenwald on January 29, 1944. Paul Le Goupil, 53354, was part of the convoy of the “tattooed” who went through Auschwitz on their way to Buchenwald on May 14, 1944. At the time “there were numerous rumors about our destination. There was talk of Dora, a name that everyone whispered with horror. It was an underground factory where the mortality rate was appalling.” That is what he wrote7 in Un Normand dans . . . , published in 1991.
Rudolf Höss, who would later become commandant of Auschwitz, was posted to Sachsenhausen concentration camp as adjutant in 1938, and presided over the brutal way in which the Jehovah’s Witnesses were treated. He subsequently wrote that he had ‘met many religious fanatics in my time’ but the Witnesses in Sachsenhausen ‘surpassed anything that I had previously seen’.31 He remembered two in particular who ‘almost ran to the place of execution. They wished on no account to be bound, for they desired to be able to raise their hands to Jehovah. Transformed by ecstasy, they stood in front of the wooden wall of the rifle range, seemingly no longer of this world. Thus do I imagine that the first Christian martyrs must have appeared, as they waited in the circus for the wild beasts to tear them in pieces.’32
Other necessary items, such as butter, eggs, ham and onions, were smuggled in by this same method. Nothing of this sort arrived with the deportees. Since the gold was procured through a collective effort, the distribution of the merchandise received in exchange was made on this same basis. Thus both the crematorium personnel and the SS non-coms received an ample supply of food, liquor and cigarettes. Everyone shut his eyes to this traffic, for it was to everyone’s advantage that it continue. Taken individually, any SS guard in the crematorium could be bought. They distrusted only themselves, knowing that the Sonderkommando had never betrayed anyone and never would. That was why the food, liquor and cigarettes were turned over to one SS guard by one “confidence man” from the kommando.
When the two days were up, I returned to C Camp to bid them a last farewell, bringing the clothes and provisions with me. But I did not return alone. I was afraid to take such a load of packages through the C Camp gate. Some high-ranking officers might have been in the neighborhood when I arrived and become curious. So I asked one of the crematorium SS guards, whom I had treated for pleurisy, to come with me and help carry the packages. This time I did not visit my wife and daughter in their barracks, but had them sent for from a deserted point along the barbed wire enclosure. It was there we held our last conversation. We threw the packages over the barbed wire. The place was so out of the way that nobody saw us. With the barbed wire strands separating us, it was impossible for us even to kiss each other good-bye.
The war also led to greater abuse of non-Jewish inmates in the concentration camps. In January 1940, for instance, Rudolf Höss, then an SS officer at Sachsenhausen, ordered 800 prisoners to stand for hours in the freezing cold and wind on the roll-call square. The senior prisoner – the camp elder – begged Höss to have mercy, but to no avail. The prisoners had to stand and suffer. Altogether in 1940 around 14,000 prisoners died within the concentration camp system. In 1938, the year of greatest fatalities before the war, 1,300 had lost their lives. The war thus brought more than a tenfold increase in the death rate.63
The pause in the deportations from Warsaw allowed the Nazis to send Jews from other ghettos in Poland to die in Treblinka. The biggest ghetto clearance during this new phase occurred in Częstochowa, west of Lublin, where about 35,000 Jews were forced on to trains and sent to Treblinka. Jews were also sent to the death camp from many other ghettos, large and small. Samuel Willenberg, for instance, then nineteen years old, was caught in Opatów in south-east Poland and transported to Treblinka during this new phase. By now – the autumn of 1942 – rumours about the fate of the Jews were widespread, and as his train passed through a station he heard Polish children shout out, ‘Jews! You’ll be turned into soap!’32 But, like many other Jews transported to the death camps during the Holocaust, those crammed into Samuel Willenberg’s freight car found it difficult to accept that the Nazis wanted to kill them all. Many still hoped that such a place could not really exist. ‘It was hard to believe,’ says Samuel. ‘I was here [Treblinka] and still I could not believe it at first.’
This trade was strictly prohibited and Otto Pressburger risked his life to pursue it. ‘There was always an SS man at the gates to the crematorium,’ he says. ‘I used to make up fake reasons for my arrival. Most of the time I said I was told to deliver sand to the crematorium. But of course I was coming to do “business”. So they let me in. Sand was never a reason and I always dumped it. The problem was to hide the goods. They [other prisoners involved in the trading] made me a little wooden storage box [on the cart] under my feet … Once I was delivering a thousand cigarettes to the crematorium. As I was taking them out of my storage box someone hit me on my back and over my head. It was an old SS man. He always used to ride a bicycle around and watch for prisoners doing “business” … He asked where I got the cigarettes from and accused me of doing “business”. But I lied. I said I was only hungry and had stolen a bag believing I would find a sandwich inside. Instead I found the cigarettes. He said that was a lie … He was only a corporal but I called him officer, which apparently helped a lot. He punched me in my face and I pretended it hurt much more than it really did. At the end he took my cigarettes and let me go. If he had reported the incident I would have been killed the same day.’ As Otto Pressburger saw it, he had ‘no choice’ but to get involved in ‘doing “business” ’ within the camp because he ‘wanted to live’.27
The man in question was no doubt Ritz, who subsequently became Lagerführer when Karl Fritzsch was appointed Lagerkommandant on September 10, 1944. The latter, after having been at Dachau, was the assistant to Höss at Auschwitz, where he carried out gassings. At some point, perhaps in October, Stötzler—the Lagerführer at Dora—became Lagerkommandant at Ellrich, replacing Fritzsch, whose subsequent fate remains unknown. Meanwhile, Otto Brinkmann—Rapportführer at Dora—became Lagerführer at Ellrich. Both seem to have kept their positions right to the end.
Normally, Mittelbau being set up as an autonomous camp would have meant a reregistering of all the prisoners thus transferred under a new series of numbers. This solution was dismissed and the prisoners maintained their numbers, which were all from Buchenwald. Only the newcomers from November 1944 on received six-digit numbers above 100,000. This was the case for the survivors of the evacuation convoys from the camps in the east. It must, however, be recalled that Butet at the Schreibstube had to undertake the typing up of some 32,000 new files for the Kartei, and that a new Häftlingskleidungskammer put together the Mittelbau prisoners’ personal “effects,” which were transferred from Buchenwald.
Ever since leaving Kaunas, he had been afraid that none of the refugees would make it. During the war, their prospects had looked very bleak indeed, and right after the war ended, the full scale of the Holocaust had come to light. He couldn’t imagine that even a single one of the Jews he had rescued had escaped the killing machine – although he still secretly hoped for a miracle.
42 Henry Friedlander, The Origins of Nazi Genocide: From Euthanasia to the Final Solution, University of North Carolina Press, 1995, p. 75.
Mittelbau-Dora in the Research on Concentration Camps
This chapter is devoted primarily to the evacuation on foot of prisoners from the Dora-Mittelbau complex, i.e., Harzungen, Rottleberode, Rossla, Kelbra, and Blankenburg. At the same time the fate of the satellite Kommandos of Buchenwald, which were marching under the same conditions in the same geographical area, will also be examined. These mainly include the Kommando of Gandersheim, located west of the Harz, and those of Langenstein and Neu Stassfurt to the east.
A couple of steps back, leaning on his cane, the ninety-one-year-old Marcel Wejland looked on. He had insisted on attending, even though he was sorry to miss the presentation at the same time in Melbourne of an anthology of Polish poetry that he had edited and translated. Without consul Zwartendijk, he would never have reached Australia and would never have been able to translate a Polish poem into English. Instead, his final destination would probably have been Auschwitz-Birkenau, where, at the age of fifteen or sixteen, he would have been sent to the gas chambers.
After Dora, other camps organized transports for their sick prisoners including Laura, Sachsenhausen, Dachau, Neuengamme, and Buchenwald. Dr. Fréjafon,15 who devoted himself to caring for his comrades, has recounted in particular the “last days of Georges Valois,” who was transferred from Neuengamme in December 1944 and died in February 1945. Louis Martin-Chauffier also arrived from Neuengamme. At the last moment, on March 6, 1945, another transport, mentioned in chapter 15, left the Boelcke Kaserne at Nordhausen for Bergen-Belsen.
92 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 76.
But the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee came to a bad end. It continued its work after the war but, from 1948 onwards, was the target of a smear campaign ordered by Stalin and Beria. Solomon Mikhoels died in Minsk, in a murder staged as a car accident. After winning the war against Nazi Germany, the Soviet leaders no longer needed the Jewish intellectuals. A series of trials followed; a military tribunal charged committee members with treason and subversive activities. During the night of 12 to 13 August 1952, which would become known as the Night of the Murdered Poets, thirteen members of the committee were murdered, including the poets Leib Kvitko, Peretz Markish, and David Hofstein. Only a few members – such as Moscow’s chief rabbi and the writers Ilya Ehrenburg and Vasily Grossman, who had edited the black book – were allowed to live.
The Sonderkommando chief came hunting for me and announced that an SS soldier was waiting for me at the door of the crematorium with a crew of corpsetransporting kommandos. I went in search of them, for they were forbidden to enter the courtyard. I took the documents concerning the corpses from the hands of the SS. They contained files on two little twin brothers. The kommando crew, made up entirely of women, set the covered coffin down in front of me. I lifted the lid. Inside lay a set of two-year-old twins. I ordered two of my men to take the corpses and place them on the dissecting table.
Sachsenhausen camp
There is more known about the second transport, also made up of one thousand men, leaving Dora on February 6 and arriving in Maïdanek on February 9. André Rogerie provided a highly detailed account of the journey and period spent at the Maïdanek camp from February 9 to April 15. When he left the camp to go to Auschwitz, he observed: “Of the 250 Frenchmen who left Dora with me, there were only eight left and it wasn’t over yet.” According to his testimony, the Polish, in general, fared much better.17
41. Hungarian Jews arrive at Auschwitz Birkenau in 1944 (World History Archive / TopFoto)
In the late 1940s, her father happened to hear a rumour about the false visas his brother had issued to thousands of Jewish refugees. He was furious with Jan for not taking him into his confidence, and let him know that right away. ‘I’m your twin brother, damn it! Don’t tell me you thought I’d turn you in!’ No, Jan hadn’t thought that for a moment. But Piet made no secret of his own opinions, and in defying the occupiers, he took serious risks. So the chance that one day he would be arrested was considerable. And in the Gestapo torture chambers, everyone confessed sooner or later.
The crematoriums’ enormous storeroom contained great quantities of clothes and shoes awaiting shipment, and I would estimate that several thousand women prisoners were aided in this manner by the Sonderkommando. I also tried to do my bit: loading my pockets with vitamin pills, sulfa tablets, bottles of iodine, bandages and anything else I thought might be useful, I handed them out as the women passed. When my stock was depleted, I returned to my room and refilled my pockets; for those who received them, these medicines often meant the difference between life and death. At least for a little while.
Upstairs he found his father – dying. The Stormtroopers had murdered him. ‘I was absolutely in shock. I couldn’t understand how this situation had arisen, from what we had before, the sort of usual average, normal life – “normal” in inverted commas. For this to happen seemed to be absolutely unacceptable and unbelievable … I really couldn’t envisage that such a thing should have or could have happened. I’d heard of concentration camps before, of course; they were going already in Dachau and Buchenwald, but that was something different. [This was] violence of a totally unnecessary and uncalled for [kind]. I didn’t know the people, they didn’t know me. They had no grudge against me [personally] – they were just people who had come to do whatever they thought they should do … The whole thing is senseless and pointless.’
“I needed all of my eighteen years and experience of the Tunnel to bear that night. Walking corpses transporting the living dead. The rest of the convoy was taken charge of by the Totenträger Kommando. Just a few days later, those who were able to find shelter and some medical care and perhaps nourish a fleeting hope, had to be transported by us once again to the mound of corpses waiting in front of the crematorium door.”16
RESISTANCE AT DORA. Discussing the “Resistance” at Buchenwald and at Dora is a delicate task for two reasons. First, because there have been sharp controversies on the topic with respect to Buchenwald, which have resurfaced on occasion. Second, because some witnesses have occasionally lacked restraint in narrating certain events, which antagonized some of their comrades.
BUCHENWALD, DORA’S ANTECHAMBER. In mid-1943 the Buchenwald concentration camp sent a large Kommando to a fairly distant site to build the V2s at Peenemünde/Karlshagen. It is not surprising that from the end of August its role was to supply a workforce to Dora, the future camp to be built at the foot of the Kohnstein in Thuringia. Moreover, one of the ongoing functions of Buchenwald for over a year was to receive convoys of prisoners from outside Germany or from other camps within Germany, only to send them on—by thousands and tens of thousands—mostly to external Kommandos, and in particular toward Dora.
THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE CONCENTRATION CAMP SYSTEM THROUGH STATISTICS. The supply by the SS of an ever larger concentration camp labor force to arms manufacturers and several other factories, starting in 1943, had major consequences on the structure and operation of the camps, which underwent a veritable transformation. The incomplete and inconsistent character of the available documents makes it impossible to carry out a complete statistical study on this subject, but the information that has been gathered is no less significant.
By the end of the third week of September most of the Warsaw Jews had perished in the gas chambers of Treblinka. The German authorities now decided temporarily to halt the deportations from Warsaw after a final mass selection that allowed 35,000 Jews to remain for the moment in the ghetto – around 10 per cent of the pre-deportation ghetto population. There were also more than 25,000 other Jews left in the ghetto – those who had managed to hide themselves, often in cellars, in attics and behind walls.
It was a disused tank barracks. The buildings surrounding the courtyard had served as lodgings for the noncommissioned officers and administration. They seemed to be occupied by foreign civilian workers. Between these and the Zorge, what was transformed into a concentration camp—with walls and watchtowers—were two enormous concrete garages with large metal doors opening southward. Traces of their normal functions were still visible: a grease pit with writing on the walls such as: “Don’t leave your motor running” or “Use caution when backing up!” Halkin added: “I have never forgotten the words of Frederick II that easily covered the ten square meters: ‘It matters little that I die, if at least I did my duty.’ Nice motto which applied to us as well as to the tank drivers on the eastern front.” The garages were divided into blocks. Above these blocks, between a concrete vault and a flimsy roof, beds were also set up—particularly for the Revier.
But Tadeusz and the rest of his group were not on their way to the gas chambers. They were loaded on to freight wagons at the ramp in Birkenau and taken far away, across the border into Austria to a destination that was almost as infamous as Auschwitz. For Tadeusz Smreczyński had been transferred to one of the most notorious concentration camps in the entire Reich – Mauthausen, near Linz in Austria. Mauthausen opened in the summer of 1938, and had been conceived from the beginning as a very different kind of camp from the traditional Dachau model. To begin with, unlike Dachau, the location of Mauthausen camp had been selected primarily for economic reasons. The camp was next to a vast granite quarry, and prisoners were forced to work here under the most appalling conditions, lugging blocks up the ‘stairs of death’ from the quarry floor.
Auschwitz
POLICE CONTROL. It should be added that Dora was not only a concentration camp but was located in the heart of the Mittelraum, which was kept under tight police control. Control was exercised first on the Germans themselves, both civilians and military. One civilian named Victor worked with prisoner Marcel Baillon63 in the tunnel tooling workshop. On one occasion he went into the camp without an authorization to do a repair job. When he went home to Erfurt on permission, he talked about the camp to his wife and daughter, who did not hold their tongues. He was arrested, tried, and hanged. Baillon had confirmation on this from his widow after the war.
Jean-Henry Tauzin,6 part of the first convoy of 1944, left Buchenwald for Laura on March 28 (or 24?) along with René André,7 Jacques Courtaud,8 and his friends Olaf, Poussin, and Lefauve, who were in the third convoy. They remained there until May 9. The work was often very hard, in particular the loading and transport of iron bars, camouflage nets, cement, and sand, with Kommandos working round the clock.
The closing of all barracks was ordered early in the morning. Several hundred SS soldiers surrounded the Czech area and ordered the inmates to assemble. Their cries of terror as they were loaded onto the waiting vans were terrible to hear, for after two years in the KZ they no longer had any illusions about what lay in store for them. “Liquidation Day” found some 12,000 prisoners left in the Czech Camp. From among that number 1,500 able-bodied men and women were chosen, along with eight physicians. The rest were sent to number two and number three crematoriums. On the following day the Czech Camp was silent and deserted. I saw a truck loaded with ashes leave the crematorium and head towards the Vistula.
André Sellier’s remarkable study makes it forcefully clear: the camps of Mittelbau-Dora were located in the center of Nazi Germany, and by no means only in the topographical sense. Like the other concentration camps, Mittelbau-Dora did not exist on the edge of society but in the center. Its inmates did not live on “Planet Dora” (Yves Béon35), though they may have had that impression, but in camps that were integral parts of their social environs. The tight camp network was difficult to perceive in its composition, with its mixture of satellite camps and many forced labor camps of various categories. Because of the forced-labor inmates in the German armaments industry, the limits of the concentration camps had been expanded far into society by the end of the war. The interpenetration of society and the camp system eventually went so far as to end all considerations of a strict separation of the internal and external worlds of the concentration camps. For Mittelbau-Dora, which was created only in the final phase of the war, these observations are even more valid than for most of the other concentration camps.
Taken to Fresnes, they were deported from Pantin to Buchenwald and assigned identity numbers between 77398 (Detoux) and 77459 (Lange). Bourdois was given the number 76857. They were all transferred to Dora, and half of them went from there to Ellrich. Out of fourteen deportees, only three came back in 1945, the elder priest Retaureau, Bourdois, and Georges Berthier.
Our path took us past the crematoriums. After showing the SS guards our safe conduct, we passed through an opening cut in the barbed wire and reached an open road. The surrounding countryside—a patchwork of bright green, grassy clearing—seemed peaceful. But soon my watchful eyes discerned, about a hundred yards away, the guards of the second line, either lounging on the grass or sitting beside their machine guns and police dogs.
Hitler was focused on the east. And it would be in the midst of his self-proclaimed war of ‘extermination’ on Soviet territory that the Holocaust would be born.
40 David Cesarani, Final Solution: The Fate of the Jews 1933–49, Macmillan, 2016, p. 274.
Only now did Auschwitz become central to the Holocaust. But it is important to remember that even after the new gas-chamber complexes had opened at Birkenau, vastly increasing the camp’s capacity to kill, Auschwitz continued to perform a variety of functions in the Nazi state – not just extermination.
Since I was unable to work, I left the dissecting room and went to my room, planning to take a healthy dose of sleeping tablets. I smoked cigarette after cigarette, my nerves completely shot. Unable to stay put, I crossed into the incineration room, where I found the Sonderkommando crew working half-heartedly, despite the fact that several hundred bodies were stacked up in front of the ovens. Small groups had formed and the men were talking in whispers. I went upstairs to the kommando’s living quarters and immediately noticed that something was amiss. Normally, after morning muster and breakfast, the night shift turned in. Now, however, at 10 o’clock, everyone was still up. I also noticed that they were dressed in sport clothes, with sweaters and boots, although the room was bright with a warm October sun. Here too many of the men were huddled, talking in whispers, while others moved about feverishly, arranging and packing their clothes in suitcases. It was obvious that some sort of plot was being hatched. But what? I entered the small room that housed the kommando chief and found the various leaders of the night shift seated around the table: the engineer, the mechanic, the head chauffeur and the chief of the gas kommando. No sooner had I taken my seat when the kommando chief took an almost empty bottle from the table and poured me a large glass of brandy. It was a strong Polish eau-de-vie, the famous cumin brandy. I downed my glass in one gulp. Now, in the waning hours of the Sonderkommando’s fourth month, it might not be a life-prolonging elixir, but it was none the less an excellent remedy for dulling the fear of death. My comrades presented me with a detailed account of our situation. All evidence seemed to indicate that the Sonderkommando’s liquidation would not take place before the following day, and perhaps even the day after. But careful plans had been made for the 860 members of the kommando to try and force their way out of the camp. The break was scheduled for that night.
The setting up of test centers for the V2 engines in two locations—Lehesten and Redl-Zipf—was much quicker. At Lehesten, a large slate quarry situated on the border of Thuringia and Bavaria south of Saalfeld was converted for these purposes.12 At Redl-Zipf, in Upper Austria northeast of Salzburg, a hill behind a brewery had to be dug into.13 In both cases the labor force came from concentration camps. The Redl-Zipf work site was opened on October 4, 1943, by prisoners from Mauthausen. It was a Kommando from Buchenwald that, at the same time, opened the work site at Lehesten. Thus the new phase of V2 development was in all cases associated with the concentration camp system: in Dora and Lehesten as well as at Ebensee and in Redl-Zipf.
62 Nuremberg Trial Files, vol. 31, Minutes of meeting on 2 May 1941, document 2718-PS, p. 84. Rees, Auschwitz, p. 53.
I WAS IN THE HABIT OF READING FOR awhile in bed each night before I went to sleep. One night, while I was doing just that, the lights suddenly went out and the KZ alarm siren began its dismal wail. Whenever there was an alert we were taken, convoyed by well-armed SS guards, to the Sonderkommando shelter, that is, to the gas chamber.
The route they followed can be established on the basis of information provided by the Belgian prisoners Gabriel Sprung,1 Roland Bossue, and Joseph Uyttenhoef and by the French prisoner Albert Besançon.2 The first part of this itinerary, which went through Osterode, Seesen, Salzgitter, and Brunswick, was the same one followed by the previous convoys. Next the train went eastward to Helmstedt, then it turned north and went through Oebisfelde, Buchhorst (April 9), Gifhorn, and Wittingen before arriving in Uelzen on April 11. As it was no longer possible to reach Bergen-Belsen in place of Neuengamme, orders arrived to go toward Sachsenhausen. The convoy went past Salzwedel and prepared to cross the Elbe at Dömitz the same day.
The prisoner personnel was gradually increased. In February 1944, Jan Cespiva, a Czech surgeon, arrived from Auschwitz via Buchenwald. It seems that Dr. Louis Girard also joined the Revier staff in February. The team was further strengthened in March–April by two veterinarians, René Morel and Marcel Petit, director of the veterinary school of Toulouse, and in May by Dr. Jacques Poupault, who became head surgeon of the Revier with Cespiva as his deputy. In September the Belgian radiologist Frans Canivet arrived from Buchenwald and took charge of tuberculosis screening.
Thus they had lived for two years, till the hour for their extermination arrived, as sooner or later it arrived for everybody in the KZ. At Auschwitz it was never a question of whether you would live or die, but merely a question of time, of when you would die. No one escaped. The trainloads of Hungarian deportees, or, to use the expression current in the KZ, the “freight,” arrived in a steady flow, sometimes two trainloads at a time, and disgorged their passengers. For them the ubiquitous Dr. Mengele dispensed with the customary formality of selection. He stood there like a statue, his arm always pointing in the same direction: to the left. Thus whole trainloads were expedited to the gas chambers and pyres.
To the Nazis, Freda Wineman’s crime was simple. She was Jewish. In May 1944, at the age of twenty, she was arrested in Saint-Etienne in France by collaborators belonging to the paramilitary Milice. Together with her parents and her three brothers she was taken first to the notorious holding camp at Drancy in the suburbs of Paris and thence to Auschwitz Birkenau in Nazi-occupied Poland.
18 140,000 is the estimated number of Jews liable for deportation under the Nazi administration. See www.rijksmuseum.nl/en/rijksstudio/timeline-dutch-history/holocaust.
The construction of the Dora camp was not makeshift. It was built like any ordinary housing development. First the wooded areas to be used were cleared. Then the roads were marked out and the “roll-call” yard was delimited. Water and wastewater pipes were laid. A sedimentation tank was even installed south of the SS camp. During the same period there were serious water and sewage problems at Buchenwald. Finally, after leveling the sites, barracks were built using components and accessories delivered at the marshaling yard south of the tunnel. Since it was a concentration camp, all of the workforce and supervisors were prisoners. There were also Kommandos for the sizable amount of “excavation work,” and a Kommando for assembling barracks known as the Barackenbau. At the same time it worked on housing for German civilians in Krimderode, north of Nordhausen. Chérif Ben Hassen was a member of that Kommando.1
It was in August 1944 that the Zwieberge camp was occupied by some 2,000 prisoners. Their number reached 3,590 by early January 1945 and attained its maximum on February 18 of 5,160, after the arrival of convoys of 1,000 each; it was only 4,191 in April because of the number of deaths. But an annex camp known as the “Junkers camp” or “little camp” also has to be taken into account, for it was there that the prisoners (885 in all) arrived from the Junkers’ factory Kommandos in Halberstadt, Aschersleben, and Niederorschel. Le Goupil’s toll is as follows, taking account of the Junkers camp: in all, 7,013 prisoners passed through Langenstein, and, on April 3, 1945, there were only 5,089 left. Because 295 had been sent back to Buchenwald, 1,629 died in the camp. Until March 16, 1945, the dead were incinerated at the Quedlinburg crematorium, then thrown into a mass grave. There were also at this same date 483 prisoners in the Revier and 1,251 in the Schonung. That is, a total of 1,734—in other words, 34.1 percent of the surviving prisoner population, which is not negligible. It was the work in the tunnel, beneath the Thekenberge, which was essentially responsible for the mortality of some and the exhaustion of others.
This approach became generalized from the 1970s on, generally at the initiative of the associations. The most notable example is that of the collective work entitled Sachso, which was mentioned in chapter 21. Put together by the French deportees to Sachsenhausen, it was published, with the success it deserved, in 1982.
“Nicholas,” he had said, “you are a strong-willed person and one day you’ll manage to get out of all this alive. As for me, I know I’m finished.” I had tried to protest, but he had waved my words of encouragement aside and gone on: “I have proof that my wife and daughter both died in the gas chamber. But I left my twelve-year-old son with the monks of the Koszeg cloister. If you ever do get home, fetch him and bring him up as your own. I say this in full possession of all my faculties, knowing I haven’t long to live.”
The funeral procession left from Soest. Zwartendijk was laid to rest in the family grave in Rotterdam-Hillegersberg. That was how he had wanted it, and he had put his wishes in writing in his will. Just before the coffin was carried out of the house, a letter arrived with news from the Holocaust Research Center.
The history of the Mittelbau-Dora camp illustrates, in a paradigmatic sense, this last stage in the genesis of the camp system. At the beginning of Nazi rule the concentration camps were used as improvised sites to intern the opponents of the dictatorship. From 1936 on, within the general social and racial framework of restrictions, they were transformed into permanent detention centers. And finally, in 1942–1943, the concentration camps became sites of ruthless exploitation of the camps’ forced laborers. Mittelbau-Dora was one of the first and, ultimately, the largest concentration camp founded with the exclusive goal of exploiting the labor potential of its inmates. From the start the murderous exhaustion of the inmates’ strength was part of the calculation of production.
The Gross Rosen camp—like the Stutthof camp—is not well known in Western countries because it did not receive large convoys, either directly like Buchenwald or Dachau or indirectly like Flossenbürg.
35. Yves Béon, Planet Dora: A Memoir of the Holocaust and the Birth of the Space Age, with an intro. by Michael J. Neufeld (Boulder, Colo., 1997).
4. Claudine Cardon-Hamet, Mille Otages pour Auschwitz (Paris: Graphein, 1997).
TRIALS AND INQUIRIES IN EAST GERMANY AND ELSEWHERE. On March 29, 1950, Ernst Busse was arrested by the SMAD, or Sowjetische Militäradministration, the Soviet military administration—the very organization that had interned so many Germans at Buchenwald.35 Charges were laid against him as a Kriegsverbrecher—a war criminal. On June 8, 1950, Reschke was in turn arrested on the same charges. The details of their trials, which remained secret, are known only through anonymous testimony, gathered by Lutz Niethammer and published in Der “gesäuberte” Antifaschismus dealing with the “Roten Kapos von Buchenwald.”
On January 26, 1942, Himmler, writing to Glücks13 with regard to the deportation of German Jews, added: “Large economic tasks are to be transferred to the camps in the coming weeks. Pohl will fill you in on the details.” On March 16, on Himmler’s instructions, Pohl went to Speer’s office (minister only as of February 8) to determine the number of prisoners apt for work to be made available to the war industry.14 It would appear that he offered 25,000 men—6,000 from Sachsenhausen and 5,000 from Buchenwald.
It appears that the Jews who arrived at Dora in May–June 1944 were originally from Transylvania. Deportation began in that region because it was the most threatened by the advance of Soviet troops. Others came from sub-Carpathian Ruthenia, such as Theodor Braun, who was arrested in Uzhorod and spoke Czech. During his quarantine in Buchenwald he managed to get himself recognized as a Czech Jew by the camp bureaucracy. At Dora he was a sort of Hungarian-Czech Jew.15
After having conquered Upper Silesia, the Soviet troops moved down the Oder toward Berlin. As previously noted, they ended up surrounding Breslau on February 16, 1945. The SS made the decision to evacuate the Gross Rosen camp, and railway convoys were formed, which, beginning on February 8, made their way toward various camps, in particular to Dora, but also to Hersbruck and Leitmeritz, two Kommandos dependent on Flossenbürg. Klein’s convoy, which wound up in Buchenwald, was one of the least dependable.22 It was one of the last great evacuations of this period, before the major series at the beginning of April. Some of the prisoners who left had only just suffered evacuation from Auschwitz.
43. This photograph captures the moment of selection – of life or death – at Auschwitz Birkenau during the Hungarian action. Most new arrivals would be told to join a group destined immediately for the gas chamber.
Oranienburg. See also Sachsenhausen camp.
So the “factory” was a crematorium. A little farther on I saw a second building with its chimney; then, almost hidden in a thicket, a third, whose chimneys were spewing the same flames. A faint wind brought the smoke towards me. My nose, then my throat, were filled with the nauseating odor of burning flesh and scorched hair. —Plenty of food for thought there. But meanwhile the second phase of selection had begun. In single file, men, women, children, the aged, had to pass before the selection committee.
Dr Brandt also maintained that the ‘experiment’ of killing the disabled by gas was ‘just one example of [what happens] when major advances in medical history are being made. There are cases of an operation being looked on at first with contempt, but then later on one learned it and carried it out.’49 And so, believing that he was part of a ‘major advance in medical history’ and with a ‘good conscience’, Brandt pushed forward with the adult euthanasia scheme.
The lethal reality of life in Auschwitz forced many to reconsider their faith. ‘I became an atheist immediately after deportation,’ said Ruth Matias, another Hungarian Jew sent to Auschwitz in 1944. ‘My father never wronged a soul, and not only was he wronged, but also so many small innocent children. I saw it with my own eyes, they caught them by their feet, banged them against the wall and their brains split open … Now I am fatalist.’ In Auschwitz she also saw how traditional family bonds of care were tested to breaking point. ‘I saw a girl hitting her mother. The mother would not eat anything but gave her entire ration to her daughter, and still, if the mother took as much as one spoon of food for herself, the daughter hit her … The mother would defend her daughter; be angry at our interference, “Don’t mix in, I’m not hungry.” ’16
There is precise information on this Kommando thanks to Charles Sadron’s firsthand account, published under the title “A l’usine de Dora” (“At the Dora Factory”) in Témoignages strasbourgeois, an anthology concerning the concentration camps. He talks mainly about the small group in Hall 28 in charge of checking the gyroscopes prior to assembly (the Vertikant and the Horizont) and the Mischgeräte, the “mixing devices.” As already mentioned, in von Braun’s letter to Sawatzski, Sadron took care of the Mischgeräte. The author, along with several fellow prisoners, was concerned with the Vertikant right up to the last day. Sadron knew what the Mischgeräte were, whereas the author had no idea how the Vertikant were made. This did not matter, however, as there was no need to know. The head of the section was an engineer named Wellner, an Austrian, who is described by Sadron,45 along with his various deputies Neumann, Jansch, Wells, and finally Krüger, whose name will come up again.
My chief was preparing to leave; he informed the SS guard that as far as “service” was concerned I depended exclusively on him. The crematorium’s SS personnel had no jurisdiction over me. The SS kitchen had to provide my food; I could get my linen and supplementary clothing at the SS warehouse. For shaves and haircuts, I had the right to use the SS barbershop in the building. I would not have to be present for the evening or morning roll call.
Among the names on the wall next to the synagogue, I find four hundred people from Sugihara’s list and the list compiled by the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, which is a reconstruction of Zwartendijk’s list of people with Curaçao visas. On the wall, they are listed with their wives and children. What I learn from my study of the names on the wall is that between two to seven people travelled on a single visa. The average is almost four. Around 1,500 to 1,600 made it to Shanghai thanks to Curaçao visas.
Notwithstanding Vichy’s dislike of foreign Jews, the first train filled with Jews that left France for Auschwitz in 1942 was sent not as part of a concerted plan to expel foreign Jews, but in an act of reprisal. The reasons why more than a thousand Jewish men were on that train in March 1942 can be traced back to the summer of 1941. In August 1941, French Communists shot two Germans in Paris, killing one and badly injuring the other. The German invasion of the Soviet Union had released French Communists from the shackles placed on their actions by the pact between Stalin and Hitler. The following month another German was shot dead. In reprisal, the German military authorities killed three Communist hostages. Hitler was incensed. He thought this a trivial response. ‘The Führer considers one German soldier to be worth much more than three French Communists,’ wrote Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel in a dispatch from Hitler’s headquarters in East Prussia. ‘The Führer expects such instances to be responded to with the harshest reprisals … At the next assassination at least 100 shootings for each German [killed] are to take place without delay. Without such draconian retribution, matters cannot be controlled.’3
After March 1944, French prisoners were no longer systematically assigned as specialists to the tunnel factory of Dora. Only a few hardly significant groups were recorded: former workers from the Barackenbau and the Zaunbau, once camp construction was completed; a fraction of the “77,000”s who were thereby able to escape from Ellrich; a few prisoners from Buchenwald, after the Gustloff factory was destroyed. Some of the newcomers were assigned to Werk I (V2s) and the rest to Werk II (V1s). There is no clear-cut information about the assignments of prisoners of other nationalities, but everything leads us to believe that their situation was identical to that of the French.
This breakdown corresponds overall to arrivals in Dora. The “Russians” were above all Ukrainians, evacuated from camps in the Ukraine once the German troops had retreated in the second half of 1943. The convoys of French that left Compiègne in the second half of 1943 were directed toward Buchenwald. The Italian capitulation in September 1943 was followed by Italian soldiers being sent to Germany as prisoners of war after they stopped fighting on the German side; some of them were sent to Dora. The Yugoslavs who had been political prisoners in Italy were sent to German camps. The Poles and the Czechs came to Dora via other camps, especially Auschwitz it would seem. The high number of German deaths is surprising, as they essentially occupied the positions of Kapo, Blockältester, Lagerschutz, and so on.
In this single revolt of the twelfth Sonderkommando, seventy SS were killed, including one commissioned officer and seventeen non-commissioned officers; one of the crematoria was totally destroyed and another severely damaged. True, all eight hundred and fifty-three prisoners of the kommando died. But this proves that a position in the Sonderkommando gave prisoners a chance of about ten to one to destroy the SS, a higher ratio than existed in the ordinary concentration camp. The one Sonderkommando that revolted and took such heavy toll of the enemy did not die much differently than all other Sonderkommandos. Why, then—and this is the question that haunts all who study the extermination camps—why then did millions walk quietly, without resistance, to their death when right before them were examples such as this commando that managed to destroy and damage its own death chambers and kill 10% of their own number in SS? Why did so few of the millions of prisoners die like men, as did the men of only one of these commandos?
However, even if the immense practical difficulties could have been overcome and the gas chambers of Auschwitz bombed, it is hard to see how this would have stopped the killings. The Harvest Festival massacre at Majdanek the year before had demonstrated that the Germans did not need gas chambers to murder large numbers of Jews – machine guns could kill just as many.
11 Y. Arad, Y. Gutman and A. Margaliot (eds.), Documents on the Holocaust: Selected Sources on the Destruction of the Jews of Germany and Austria, Poland and the Soviet Union, Bison Books, 1999, pp. 98–9.
The Transports from Peenemünde, Wiener Neustadt, and Sachsenhausen
31 Michael Fleming, Auschwitz, the Allies and Censorship of the Holocaust, Cambridge University Press, 2014, p. 106.
A photograph in the Jewish Refugees Museum shows a woman, six men, a rabbi, and a boy jostling to scan a billboard for signs of life from the relatives they left behind in Europe. The men are craning their necks, making their way through the lists, while the woman walks off, shaking her head. No news. That meant waiting for a letter with more names of people murdered in Treblinka or the gas chambers of Sobibór – or shot by an SS officer, like Marcel Wejland’s grandmother as she lay sick in bed in the Warsaw ghetto.
“When he came back around midnight, he spoke to me of his family and assured me that, thanks to my good behavior, he was going to enjoy an eight-day leave which would be authenticated by the signature of the SS man who was going to come and get me. I responded to him by speaking of my own family, which I hoped to see again. Out came the sentence which ended everything: ‘Nur durch Kamin,’ ‘Only through the chimney’ (of the crematorium). Around five in the morning, he put me under the watch of military men no doubt waiting for a train, and went to clean himself up—taking his time. The SS men of the Dora camp arrived at that moment, around seven o’clock, and moving towards me called out: ‘Du bist schon weggelaufen’ (“You’re already on your way’). I acted like I hadn’t understood, knowing that all attempts at escape were punished with death. The first SS man came back: exchange of papers, signatures, then depart on foot for the Dora camp. After some hundred yards, seeing I was exhausted, he gave me his bike to carry my box of clothes on. After two and a half miles on foot, we arrived at the camp.
33. Christine Schäfer, Die Evakuierungstransporte des KZ Buchenwald und seiner Aussenkommandos (Weimar-Buchenwald, 1983), pp. 33–34.
In order to achieve results, requests had to be addressed to those in control of the concentration camp system, namely the SS. Hence Count Bernadotte addressed himself to the leader of the SS, Reichsführer-SS Heinrich Himmler. These contacts appear to have been facilitated by Walter Schellenberg, a young SS general, on the occasion of two trips Bernadotte made to Berlin, one in February and one in April. It was only on April 23 that their relations took on a political dimension, with important consequences. First, everything had to be happening at once at the top level of the government.
In the autumn of 1941, Josef Meisinger visited Shanghai and, to his astonishment, saw that Jews were allowed to live in freedom throughout the city. He presented the Japanese authorities with a number of plans for making Shanghai Judenfrei. Chongming Island, at the mouth of the Yangtze, struck him as the ideal place for a concentration camp. On the other hand, it would be much cheaper simply to send the Jews out to sea on a couple of broken-down ships and let them starve there. He drafted that plan, too.
The trial opened in Dachau on August 7, 1947. The verdict was announced on December 30. Of the seventeen accused, fourteen were SS; three were acquitted. The only civilian, Rickhey, was acquitted. Three of the four incriminated prisoners were found guilty. The preparations carried out by the American prosecuting officers had been long. They had begun on April 27, 1945, some two years before the trial began. A particularly important role was played by Wincenty Hein, a young Polish lawyer who had been a prisoner at Dora and ended up as Schreiber in Nordhausen during the final weeks. He became the expert witness to the prosecuting officers and helped them exploit the camp documents, which had escaped destruction in the final days. They were found after the evacuation, particularly in the blocks of the SS camp and in the outside Kommandos such as the Boelcke Kaserne. Already in 1945, Hein put together a proposed bill of indictment with an overall description of the Dora-Mittelbau complex and its history. In 1967 he used his documentation for a study published in Polish in Warsaw. In 1969 this study was published in Warsaw in French under the title Conditions de vie et de travail des prisonniers dans le camp de concentration Dora-Mittelbau (Living and Working Conditions in the Dora-Mittelbau Concentration Camp). The author, like many others, found this reference work extremely valuable.
Others did not lose their reason because, like Dr. Frankl, and thousands of other concentration camp prisoners, they never accepted their fate but fought it. Rightly, Dr. Nyiszli devotes much space to the men of the twelfth Sonderkommando, prisoners working in the gas chambers. Alone of all such commandos, it rediscovered freedom in the last days of its existence, and on the very last day regained it; therefore they died as men, not as living corpses. The account of this one Sonderkommando alone would make the book an important document. But its fate raises even more acutely the question of why only one of the fourteen such commandos fought back. Why did all others march themselves to their death? Why did millions of other prisoners do the same? Surely the story of these 800-odd men is a heroic saga of the extermination camps; it is a story that restores our trust in human beings. But they did only what we would expect all human beings to do: to use their death, if they could not save their lives, to weaken or hinder the enemy as much as possible; to use even their doomed selves for making extermination harder, or maybe impossible, not a smooth running process. Their story, then, remains within the human dimensions. If they could do it, so could others. Why didn’t they? Why did they throw their lives away instead of making things hard for the enemy? Why did they make a present of their very being to the SS instead of to their families, their friends or even to fellow prisoners; this is the haunting question.
The Polish Madagascar initiative acted as a powerful reminder to the delegates at Evian that anti-Semitic initiatives were not just the preserve of the government of the Third Reich. The desire of other European countries in the 1930s to persecute and even remove their Jews has largely been forgotten in the public consciousness today – dwarfed by the scale and ferocity of the subsequent Nazi Holocaust.
In 1933 the concentration camps were not yet sites of mass murder. They became that only after the attack on the Soviet Union and the start of the systematic murder of the European Jews. In the occupied territories of Poland and the Soviet Union the Nazi annihilation policy became radicalized to the level of millions of murders, which for the time being were committed chiefly on the periphery of the German occupied territories. Only with the military turn of fortunes did a change take place. What had become apparent in 1942 and was already practiced to a limited extent by 1944 became the cruel reality of daily war in Nazi Germany. With the creation of the dense net of satellite camps and the steady enlargement of the categories for imprisonment, the criminal deed returned from the periphery to the place it had come from: the center of German society. There it exploded with brutal power and, with the crimes of the last phase of war, took on the character of a collective murderous frenzy of the culprit society. The death marches of 1945 were nothing other than the implosion of a collectively supported annihilation policy that already before 1941 had taken on an internal dynamic that precluded reconsideration or reversal.36
Burning of prisoners. See also Cremations; Crematorium.
60 I. C. Butnaru, The Silent Holocaust: Romania and its Jews, Greenwood Press, 1992, p. 138.
6. Hermann Langbein, Hommes et Femmes à Auschwitz (Paris: Fayard, 1975).
AFTERWORD: MITTELBAU-DORA IN THE SYSTEM OF NAZI CONCENTRATION CAMPS
Even if they had been selected for work, many of the new arrivals were now dying at Auschwitz in a matter of weeks – particularly in the newly created women’s section of the main camp. Auschwitz had become in a short space of time, and with little or no preparation, one of the biggest women’s camps in the Nazi system. Over 6,700 women were held in the main camp in April 1942 and by the time the women’s camp was moved to Auschwitz Birkenau in August 1942, an estimated one in three of these women were dead.53 At Birkenau, conditions were no better. Disease was rife, the Kapos could be brutal, the food was inadequate and the work was often back-breaking – especially for those forced to dig massive ditches to help the drainage.
Not until twenty years after the war did Count Romer hear about the massacre on the estate where, as a toddler, he had taken his first steps. It was the horrifying evidence that, in 1941, he had made the right choice.
Concerning the first months of Dora there exists no uncertainty. The number of prisoners incinerated month by month at Buchenwald is known. A total of 2,882 dead can be broken down as follows:
A Kasernenlager or “barracks-camp” was formed “outside” the Bergen-Belsen camp. It had its own commander, the Obersturmführer Franz Hössler, who had just been the Transportführer of the first convoy from Dora on April 4. Formerly at Auschwitz, he had then become the Schutzhaftlagerführer at Dora.
The Sachsenhausen camp and its Kommandos, of which there were many more than the ones just mentioned, have been described in the collection of firsthand accounts drawn up by the association of French deportees of the camp. The book is entitled Sachso, the familiar name used by these deportees. The camp head count, which was always sizable, reached 28,000 at the end of 1943 and 47,700 at the end of 1944. It grew considerably in early 1945 with the evacuations from the camps in the east.
56 Manus I. Midlarsky, The Killing Trap: Genocide in the Twentieth Century, Cambridge University Press, 2005, p. 147.
THE LIBERATION “OF” DORA. Strictly speaking, there was no liberation “of” Dora in the sense that there was a liberation “of” Buchenwald or Bergen-Belsen. When the Americans arrived on the site, all the able-bodied prisoners had already been evacuated and only the seriously ill remained at Dora (with a few doctors and nurses) and the survivors of the Boelcke Kaserne in Nordhausen. Hence it is only possible to speak of the liberation of prisoners “at” Dora and “at” Nordhausen. As there was nothing left to suggest how the camp had once operated, what was first engraved in the collective memory was the image of the masses of corpses at Boelcke Kaserne and the name of Nordhausen, whether connected to Dora or not.
In respect of the decisions made at the highest level, after August 18, 1943, the WIFO had to leave its underground installations at Kohnstein to allow the V2 production factory to be set up. The problem thus arose of who was to look after the dismantling and evacuation of the WIFO stockpile, followed by the work required to start up the factory. Following the bombing, the people in Peenemünde lacked the teams needed to deal with this task. Moreover, the Trassenheide camp, which housed the Russian and Polish workers in charge of carrying out work in the camp, had been particularly hard hit. There was, in any case, no further question of using anything but a concentration camp workforce in the tunnel, aside from German civilians.
7. Concentration camp prisoners in the 1930s (Ullsteinbild / TopFoto)
It was all a fantasy, of course – not least because Hitler had for years intended to launch a war of territorial conquest in the east. But within the confines of the Nazi universe Himmler’s arguments made sense. Outrageous and full of falsehoods as his letter of explanation to Kersten was, it remains valuable as an insight into how he seriously thought he could argue that the Holocaust was not his fault.
The balance of power was not, however, the same in both camps. At Buchenwald the Reds enjoyed unquestioned control. At Dora there were few Reds who were politically aware and hence their situation was precarious. There were more Greens, but they did not seem to form a coherent political group. The eyewitness accounts of prisoners of other nationalities suggest that different clans organized the looting of rations and packages.
I can’t say for certain. What I do know, from Edith and Rob and from Jan junior’s letters, is that Zwartendijk felt responsible for the visa recipients. When fifteen years after the war he still hadn’t received news of any of them escaping death, he was consumed with worry. The true scale of the Shoah had become public knowledge by then, and he began to fear that most of ‘his’ refugees were among the six million victims.
All the other large camps bore unequivocal place names, such as Auschwitz. The Dora camp was situated in a secret region designated by a variety of code names, relatively disconcerting for the uninitiated historian but which wouldn’t have raised many problems for Allied intelligence. Dora was one of these code names—as was Mittelbau, which in the final months designated all of Dora and the adjoining camps. There were thus two names for a single reality, to which circumstances conspired to add a third. When American troops reached the area in April 1945, the vast majority of the prisoners were no longer there, the SS having “evacuated” them in often murderous fashion. What they discovered was a combination of cadavers and near-dead survivors in a Nordhausen barracks. This discovery was to leave an impression, and the subsequent trial of the Dora war criminals came to be referred to as the “Nordhausen Trial.”
Mengele was a staunch Nazi. He had joined the party in 1937 and had demonstrated a commitment to the nationalist cause even before Hitler came to power. He was also a dedicated racist and believed he was a member of a master race. But nothing in his previous background before Auschwitz suggested that he had a capacity for sadism on a gigantic scale – yet that is what he demonstrated in the camp. He seemed to relish the power he had during selections, not just on the ramp but in the hospital barracks when he chose who was to die from among the existing inmates.
70 Als sozialdemokratischer Arbeiter im Konzentrationslager Papenburg was written by a former prisoner of Börgermoor and was credited only as ‘anonymous’ in order to protect his family. The preface of the book, vouching for its accuracy, was written by Willi Bredel, another concentration camp inmate.
Linda Breder, a Jewish inmate of Auschwitz, felt that ‘God forgot us and [the] people of the war forgot us, didn’t care about what’s going on and they knew what’s going on [at Auschwitz].’ She says, ‘We wanted them to put the bombs on the camp, at least we could run and hundreds and hundreds of planes were coming [to bomb other targets in Poland] and we are looking up and no bombs. So this we could not understand.’7
In mid-March 1944 the Germans invaded Hungary. All Jews were immediately consigned to house arrest, in conformance with Hitler’s longstanding Schutzhaft, which he introduced in 1933 immediately after coming to power, to cow and control all those who might conceivably pose a threat to his then new regime. Deportations began soon afterward. In April, Dr. Nyiszli and his family, together with all the Jews of his city, Oradea-Nagyvarad, were shipped to Auschwitz, in the all too familiar cattle cars the Nazis used to accomplish the first, debasing step of their Final Solution. Separated from his wife and daughter upon arrival, Dr. Nyiszli was shortly chosen by the infamous Dr. Josef Mengele to take charge of all the pathological work carried on in the camp. As such, Nyiszli became a member of the Sonderkommando, the specially qualified and privileged group of prisoners who worked exclusively inside the crematoriums. This Sonderkommando, also known as the “kommando of the living dead,” was made up of 860 male prisoners chosen for their various professional abilities as well as their physical strength and hardy constitution. As long as they lived, their lot within the camp was relatively good, but in general they lived for only four months from the day they first took up their duties inside the crematoriums. At the end of that brief period they were summarily liquidated and replaced by a new group of prisoners. In this way, the Nazi authorities hoped to keep from the world any knowledge of what was going on in these “death factories.”
Time moved forward on leaden feet. Lunch time arrived. We ate slowly, then went into the crematorium courtyard to warm ourselves in the slanting rays of the autumn sun. I noticed that the SS guards were nowhere to be seen. But there was probably nothing unusual about that; it had happened more than once before. They were no doubt in their rooms. The gates were closed. Outside, the camp SS on duty were at their posts. So I accorded no importance to the absence of guards inside. I smoked my cigarette in peace. To know that within a few hours we would be outside these barbed wires and free again lifted a dark cloud from my mind, a cloud that had hovered there since my first day in the KZ. Even if the attempt failed, I would have lost nothing.
18 Michael Mogensen, ‘October 1943 – The Rescue of the Danish Jews’, in Mette Bastholm Jensen and Steven L. B. Jensen (eds.), Denmark and the Holocaust, Department for Holocaust and Genocide Studies, 2003, pp. 33–61, here p. 45.
42 Robert Jan van Pelt, The Case for Auschwitz: Evidence from the Irving Trial, Indiana University Press, 2002, pp. 145–6.
Since then four years had passed. Countless thousands had since climbed down from the box cars and crossed the thresholds of the crematoriums. The present Sonderkommando was the twelfth to bear the name. I learned the history of each preceding Sonderkommando, when it “reigned” and who its heroes were, and I was reminded of a fact I already knew: that the Sonderkommando’s life span was only a few months at the most.
This sport continued for several hours. They counted the rows of men more than fifteen times, from front to back and back to front and in every other possible direction they could devise. If a row was not straight the entire barracks remained squatting for an hour, their hands raised above their heads, their legs trembling with fatigue and cold. For even in summer the Auschwitz dawns were cold, and the prisoners’ light burlap served as scant protection against the rain and cold. But, winter and summer, roll call began at 3:00 A.M. and ended at 7:00, when the SS officers arrived.
Bonifas’s account, providing a continuous picture of what took place on the Helmetalbahn work sites from September 1944 to April 1945, is the only overall document published on the subject. Manfred Bornemann’s Chronicle of the Ell-rich Camp—several pages of which are devoted to the Baubrigaden—makes reference to no other text of this kind. It contains indications as to the number of prisoners concerned.22 At the end of October 1944 the BB 3 in Wieda with its three Kommandos had 996 prisoners. This number had reached 1,102 by January 15, 1945, at which time it was administratively linked to the camp at Sachsenhausen.
From September 1943 until March 1944, “transports” of prisoners to Dora from the Buchenwald camp—chosen for the most part from within the quarantine blocks—never ceased. In general they concerned a round figure: 250 prisoners in the case of the February 11, 1944, transport, of which the author was part, including a very large majority of French prisoners who had arrived from Compiègne with the first major convoy in January.
Regarding rocket production, there were three hierarchical levels. At the head of it was Speer, and his assistant Saur, head of the Technisches Amt. Beneath him was the Sonderausschuss A4, with Degenkolb and his assistant Kunze. At the base was the Mittelwerk company, directed by Kettler along with Sawatzki. The SS provided the concentration camp labor force, based on Kammler’s instructions, who had received full powers from Himmler in this regard. The fact that Förschner was one of the directors of Mittelwerk was symbolic, given his lack of competence.
Goebbels’ journey to Nazism is also instructive because it demonstrates the key role the political and economic situation played in creating support for the far right. There is no evidence that Goebbels was a committed anti-Semite before the end of the First World War. He was twenty-one years old when the war ended and had been unable to serve in the army because of a disabled leg, an affliction which caused him to walk with a pronounced limp. Prevented from becoming a soldier, he had pursued an academic career. The supervisor of his thesis was a Jew – Professor Max von Waldberg. But this doesn’t appear to have bothered Goebbels. The turning point in his life came in 1923 when the French entered the Rhineland. He had been born in the small town of Rheydt in the west of the Rhineland, and in 1923 was living at home with his parents. He was out of work, suffering like millions of others through a time of hyperinflation and political chaos, and now a despised enemy had just occupied his homeland; like many others he sought someone to blame for what was happening, and found an easy target in the Jews.
I paid a call on my colleagues stationed in barracks-hospital number 12. They were overjoyed to receive the medicines I had brought, and contentedly smoked the cigarettes I handed around. Their faces and words betrayed symptoms of fatigue and discouragement. The Czech Camp’s sudden and tragic end had had a strong effect on them. Little by little the hopelessness of their situation was overwhelming them, as it had overwhelmed me, but with this difference: my realization had not come little by little, but all at once—the moment I had stepped across the threshold into the crematorium.
Two other examples may be given to show the care with which these belongings were stored. Michel13 recounts that one day Pierre Rozan was called to the gate of the camp to be given his watch, which had been sent from Buchenwald, for reasons that will soon be explained. André Rogerie14 found himself in Auschwitz after passing through Buchenwald and Dora and being sent in a “transport” to Maïdanek; one day he was summoned to an office to identify his belongings, which had been transferred from Buchenwald.
Else Abt, a Jehovah’s Witness who was arrested during the war and suffered in Auschwitz, recalls her own attitude towards Jews prior to her imprisonment. ‘I never bought anything from a Jewish shop,’ she says, ‘because they always [charged] higher prices, and then they’d give a discount and the stupid people thought that they were only paying half price. That was true, I saw it in Danzig. They would put the prices up and they know that people like to pay a lower price – they’d calculate prices in a certain way, that’s my opinion, but I don’t have anything against Jews … For me personally I can say that I never loved the Jews and I wouldn’t buy anything in a Jewish shop.’27
“Leaving the Revier meant therefore either the crematorium or the Schonung, the rest or convalescence building. [. . .] To the left of the entrance was a large room without any furniture. Hundreds of ‘convalescents’ were packed in. At night, all the bodies laid out covered the entire floor. [. . .] In the morning, the corpses were taken out and thrown into a heap in front of the building, where a special Kommando, the Totenträger, came to pick them up. [. . .] As for the large room to the right of the entrance, I never went in. I only know that it is much worse than the room in which I find myself resting. It was reserved exclusively for those with diarrhea. [. . .]
A particularly large number of prisoners at Dora came from the Soviet Union. They arrived in two ways. The first were interned in Ukraine and deported to Buchenwald when Soviet troops began reconquering the territory, as we saw earlier. The others were already prisoners of war or civilian laborers in Germany and were transferred to the concentration camps with or without reason.
One of these new incarceration groups were the “Wifo-inmates.” They consisted mainly of former Polish and French workers of the Wirtschaftliche Forschungsgesellschaft (Wifo), who since the early 1940s had been working on the excavation of the Kohnstein underground complex and who in 1943 were incarcerated as police prisoners in Dora. Another group were the “in transit” prisoners (Zwischenhäftlinge). These were armed forces members who because of desertion or other infractions were transferred in winter 1944–1945 by the military courts via Buchenwald to Mittelbau-Dora.
IT IS NOW MORE THAN SIXTY YEARS after the almost unimaginable events this book describes, and despite all efforts to make sure that the twelve incredible years of Hitler’s sway will never be forgotten, the fact remains that few of those who experienced the Nazi concentration camps are alive to bear witness. Inevitably and inexorably, history reduces the personal to the impersonal, subsumes the individual into the collective, renders the immediate remote. Monuments and museums, however eloquent, can never truly or fully convey the experience itself. That is why Dr. Miklos Nyiszli’s book remains so important some six decades after it was written, more than fifty years after it first appeared in Jean-Paul Sartre’s monthly review, Les Temps Modernes. One of the earliest books published on the subject—at a time when many preferred not to know what really went on day to day in the death camps—Auschwitz, for all the moral ambiguity of its author’s stance (which is duly noted by Bruno Bettelheim in his eloquent foreword), remains, as the New York Review of Books noted in a roundup of several books on the subject, “the best brief account of the Auschwitz experience available to a reader.” For this new edition, a few words of background are in order.
Heydrich announced that with Hitler’s ‘permission’ there was now the possibility of ‘evacuating’ the Jews ‘to the East’ rather than forcing their ‘emigration’.21 This would not have been new information to those present in the room. Thousands of Jews from the Old Reich had already been deported. What was new was the scale of the ‘evacuation’ that Heydrich now outlined. He said that more than 11 million Jews within Europe were potentially subject to the Final Solution including Jews in countries that the Nazis did not even control, like Spain and Britain (which was referred to as ‘England’). He outlined how the Nazis now intended to send all of these Jews – or as many as they could get their hands on – to the east to work in ‘large labour gangs’. In the course of this work, a ‘large number’ of the Jews would, said Heydrich, ‘drop out’ through ‘natural wastage’. He singled out for special mention the small number of Jews who would survive this ‘natural selection’, because they would have proved to be the ‘fittest’ and could form a ‘germ cell’ from which the Jewish race could ‘regenerate itself’. Consequently, these Jews would have to be ‘dealt with accordingly’ – by which he could only have meant they should be murdered.
The majority of the Yugoslavs were interned in Italy when the Germans occupied the country. They were in a camp in Renicci, near Perugia. On September 23, 1943, they were placed in a transport of 700 people that ended up, by mistake, at a prisoner-of-war camp in Nuremberg. From there they were transferred to the Flossenbürg concentration camp. Then, 506 of them were sent to Buchenwald and given identity numbers in the “32,000” series. Finally, 350 arrived at Dora on October 28.
7. Concentration camp prisoners in the 1930s. ‘We had to rescue these people,’ said Herman Göring, ‘to bring them back to the national community. We had to re-educate them.’ This ‘re-education’ consisted of subjecting these prisoners to one of the most brutal prison regimes ever devised.
Joan Veldkamp’s Vrijhaven Shanghai: Hoe duizenden Joodse vluchtelingen in China aan de Holocaust ontkwamen (Amsterdam, 2017) was published after my visit to Shanghai, but I was nonetheless able to draw a few facts from it.
18 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 143.
The sick, however, were numerous, because work in the tunnel was harsh and the conditions over the past months had been grueling. The seriously sick were evacuated to Ellrich, and the dead were transported in boxes. On April 1 some seven hundred prisoners evacuated from Auschwitz and Gross Rosen arrived at Woffleben. They were in very bad shape, but it was claimed they were to be made to work at B 12. The evacuation from Woffleben to Bergen-Belsen took place several days later.
Once she arrived in Auschwitz that same strength of will enabled her to cope: ‘You had to adapt to that way of life. Do you see what I’m saying? You had to adapt to sleeping in conditions like that, you had to adapt to working hard, you had to adapt to spending hours and hours being ordered about, poorly dressed. Yes, when the mentality is there the body adapts. If you’re not there mentally, the body won’t follow suit … That is why young people managed much better than those who were thirty-five or forty years old. Forty was the maximum. The will to survive was stronger in us younger ones.’
48. Oskar Groening, a member of the SS garrison at Auschwitz. He worked in the economic administration, counting the money stolen from those the Nazis killed.
19. Walter Bartel (1904–1992) while a prisoner chaired the illegal international camp committee in the Buchenwald concentration camp. In 1962 he was professor of modern and contemporary history at the Institute for German History, Humboldt University, East Berlin.
In the context of the Holocaust, Hitler’s primary role was to set a vision. That vision was relatively consistent from the moment he entered politics at the end of the First World War. He hated the Jews with a passion that was almost overwhelming. They were to blame for Germany’s misfortune. They needed – somehow or other – to be neutralized and rendered harmless. As we have seen, how that goal should be accomplished varied from time to time, determined largely by what Hitler thought was politically acceptable at any given moment. There were thus many different milestones on the journey to the Holocaust. Some of the most crucial along the way were: the invasion of the Soviet Union; Hitler’s decision to send the Jews from the Old Reich and Protectorate to the east in the autumn of 1941; his response to the entry of the United States into the war a few months later; and the order to kill the Jews of the General Government in the summer of 1942. The most appalling atrocity in history was thus caused not by one single, monumental moment of decision, but by a series of moments of escalation, which cumulatively built into the catastrophe we call the Holocaust.
concentration camp sites in German territory
Though the Nazis’ Madagascar idea was not an immediate plan for the extermination of the Jews, it would have led to the deaths of millions. That’s because the Polish commission that had investigated the possibility of mass emigration to Madagascar before the war had concluded that only 60,000 Jews could survive on the island, yet Eichmann’s office sent a memo to Rademacher on 15 August saying that ‘four million’ Jews would be settled there.72 Nor, under the Nazi plan, were the Jews to be allowed any form of self-government on Madagascar. The island would be ‘under the control of the Reichsführer SS’ and a ‘police governor’.73 Two further indications that the Nazi plans were quasi-genocidal was the fact that Philipp Bouhler – one of the originators of the adult euthanasia scheme – was mentioned as a possible ‘Governor’ of Madagascar, and that by late summer 1940 Rademacher had revised up his estimate of the number of Jews to be sent to the island still further – from 4 million to 6.5 million.74
On December 2, 1944, Haas was replaced as camp commander by the Hauptsturmführer Joseph Kramer, who had been commander of Birkenau. There was no longer any real administration or internal hierarchy in the camp. The SS were afraid of typhus and hardly strayed from the main roads that went through the camp.
Soroh had given up hope of receiving a sign of life from any close relative. Images of the concentration camps had spread around the world by then, and the few survivors had contacted their relatives long before. On 16 October 1946, the Nuremberg trials had been completed and the death sentences carried out. She tore open the letter: ‘Dear Sorohle …’ Through her tears, she read that Bella was alive, had a son, and really just wanted to know two things: whether Leo was still alive, and where he was.
CAMP BUREAUCRACY. Administering a German concentration camp always involved a great deal of paperwork. A list of prisoners had to be kept up to date, indicating their current whereabouts (in a block, at the Revier, etc.) and their assignment to a Kommando. Statistics were kept by nationality or by prisoner status, especially in the case of Germans. Even cause of death was recorded.
The author was not quite right about what he wrote. He was minimizing the importance of the few weeks of wandering he had experienced between Zirtow and Neubrandenburg, without papers or money. Well, not exactly. In a piece of corrugated cardboard folded in half, he did have a few letters received at Dora with his name and identity number, including those from his father posted at Buchenwald and Wertmarke testifying to his enthusiasm as a Vertikant controller. This period of “truce,” during which the prisoner was no longer a prisoner but not yet a civilian with family and professional responsibilities, was spent in different ways: Wexler spent it playing the role of burgermeister of Biere, Rogerie spent it making crepes in Stassfurt, and Dutillieux32 spent three weeks in Schwerin doing nothing, for he had just walked nearly 375 miles. Fifty years later, whenever anecdotes come to mind, the first to be told are the ones about the Guy-Francis-André trio in the carriage and Thiercelin’s saxophone.
As for the leading perpetrators, they swiftly left the scene of the crime. In September 1943, Globocnik departed for northern Italy, where he had been appointed Higher SS and Police Leader. He took many of his co-conspirators with him, including Christian Wirth and Franz Stangl. They soon found use for their particular talents in Trieste, in a region now annexed to the Reich. At Risiera di San Sabba, a factory in the south of the city, they helped to create one of the most notorious concentration camps and prisons in the Mediterranean. The majority of those killed here were not Jews, but partisans. At least 3,000 people were murdered at Risiera di San Sabba – most beaten to death or executed by firing squad in the courtyard of the building. Just as at Majdanek, music was played loudly in an attempt to drown out the noise of the killing. From April 1944, the bodies of those who had been murdered were burnt in a purpose-built crematorium on the site – created by Erwin Lambert, who had previously constructed gas chambers not just for the T4 programme but also at Sobibór and Treblinka. Once the bodies had been burnt, the ashes were thrown into the nearby harbour.63
In the Nazi war against the Jews, the main battleground was in Poland – and never more so than during 1942. Not just because all of the major death camps were built on Polish soil, and Poland was the destination for the vast majority of the transports from across Europe, but because more Polish Jews died in the Holocaust than Jews from any other nation – around 3 million.1 Half of all the Jews murdered in the course of the entire Final Solution.
45. Crematorium III at Auschwitz. This killing factory, which opened in 1943, had the gas chambers and undressing rooms in the semi-basement of the building.
Heydrich’s commission to devise a ‘final solution’ for the ‘Jewish question’ does not mean that this was the order for the Holocaust. The words ‘final solution’ do not mean here what they came to mean later. Heydrich was working on a plan not to exterminate the Jews in gas chambers, but to deport them to somewhere under German control once the war was over. Eichmann had already attempted a similar operation at the start of the war with the Nisko plan. Now Heydrich was almost certainly planning to send the Jews even further away – to the extremity of the new Nazi empire in the conquered territory of the Soviet Union.
True to his past actions, Hans Frank refused to take the inhabitants of the Łόdź ghetto into his jurisdiction. So it was left to the authorities in the Warthegau to come up with a solution to their self-created problem. Since the Jews in the ghetto no longer had any money to buy food from the Germans, the Nazis faced a stark choice – let the Jews starve to death or permit them to work in order to earn money to pay for food. The different sides of this dilemma were personified by two people: Hans Biebow, the German chief of the ghetto administration, and Alexander Palfinger, a slightly more junior ghetto official. Estera Frenkiel, a Polish Jew who worked in the office of the Jewish Council within the ghetto, dealt with both of these German bureaucrats in the summer and autumn of 1940. Palfinger, she remembers, was happy to see the Jews in the ghetto ‘starve to death’.45 Her recollection is supported by documentary evidence from the time. ‘A rapid dying out of the Jews is for us a matter of total indifference,’ wrote Palfinger in a report in late 1940, ‘if not to say desirable, as long as the concomitant effects leave the public interest of the German people untouched.’46 Biebow, on the other hand, took a very different view. As Estera Frenkiel says, ‘Biebow had great entrepreneurial spirit. He had great powers of persuasion – something Palfinger lacked. He carried on trying to persuade people until spittle formed at the sides of his mouth.’47 Biebow proposed that the ghetto become self-sustaining. Factories and workshops could be established for the Jews and the goods they made sold in order to provide money for food.
In early November 1939 the Nazis called academics at the Jagiellonian University in Kraków to a meeting in one of the lecture rooms. Once they arrived they were beaten with rifle butts before being transported to concentration camps. ‘I had a very Catholic upbringing,’ says Mieczysław Brożek, an assistant professor at the university, ‘and it did not enter my head that something evil [like this] could happen … It was beyond our life experience.’ Once in Dachau he was so appalled by the suffering that he felt a ‘complete annihilation of values. After the experiences I had in the camp there are no values. I had a vision of the worthlessness of everything. The senselessness of everything. This tormented me desperately, to the brink of suicide.’5
Kuntz was a longtime prisoner and had been interned since 1933. At the time of his arrest he was a communist deputy in the Prussian Landtag. Born in 1896, he was a war veteran who had been wounded in 1918. He had been at Buchenwald since the beginning of the camp and was transferred to an outside Kommando in Kassel in 1943. From there he was brought to Dora in September and placed in charge of camp construction. Two other “Reds” or communists were sent from Buchenwald to be Lagerältester, but they were not of the same caliber as Kuntz, who was immediately considered by the prisoners to hold a central position.
Benjamin Fishoff – the young man who had arrived in Tsuruga at the age of eighteen without a Curaçao visa, been sent back to Vladivostok, and readmitted to Japan only after consul De Voogd issued him a visa – had to remain in Shanghai until 1947. By November, he had valid papers and secured passage on a ship to New York. The first thing he heard when he arrived was that his parents had died in a concentration camp and that none of his relatives who had remained in Europe had survived the war. After eight years of wandering the world, he knew for certain that he was truly alone.
With regard to the Dora-Mittelbau complex, virtually all of the prisoners were evacuated one way or another, and the story of their evacuations will be told in the following chapters. On their way they crossed paths with various prisoners from Neuengamme, Buchenwald, Ravensbrück, and Sachsenhausen, which will also be included in the story. It will therefore be possible to assess what happened throughout the whole of northern Germany regardless of whether the liberators were Americans, British, or Soviets.
Above all, beginning in August 1942 concentration camp manpower was made available to the large aircraft construction company Heinkel in a factory located in Oranienburg. The experiment was successful, and a Heinkel Kommando was housed at a camp inside the factory itself, which ended up reaching a total head count of 6,000 to 7,000 prisoners. It was so successful that Rudolph, who was chief engineer of the V2 factory at Peenemünde, paid a visit to the Heinkel factory on April 12, 1943, as has been mentioned in chapter 2. His report was favorable, and he too put in a request for a prisoner workforce for Peenemünde. As already indicated, this initiative was responsible for their being employed by Mittelwerk in the tunnel factory at Dora.
The other organization was the Arbeitsstatistik, based within the camp, and was, at Buchenwald at any rate, truly managed by the prisoners. Its role was the allotment of work to everyone. Some were assigned a quiet administrative role. Other Kommandos, like those working in the quarries, were especially hard. Skilled laborers who found work in factories dependent on the camp were better off than those who did heavy manual tasks. Thus the Arbeitsstatistik had significant power; it became significant when it was time to draw up the “transport” lists for the outside Kommandos. This was the case, for example, when it was necessary to supply the SS with the five hundred prisoners they demanded one particular day for Dora, Langenstein, or Ohrdruf. This especially delicate subject will be dealt with later.
The area of the protectorate of Bohemia-Moravia began immediately to the south with the small fortified town of Theresienstadt (Terezin), which had been transformed into a ghetto for German and Czech Jews who lived there under “privileged” conditions until they were sent, like the others, to Auschwitz. This made it possible to a certain extent to fool visitors such as those from the International Red Cross. When the prisoners from Tröglitz and Artern arrived in Leitmeritz, the Jews were placed in a separate group and sent to Theresienstadt. A convoy was formed with the others and set off southward.
concentration camp inquiry
Some French deportees were numbered in the lower “30,000”s, such as Louis Girard, Marcel Baillon, and Georges Virondeau. They did not come from Compiègne but had passed through a variety of prisons in both France and Germany. The convoy of October 30 coming from Compiègne was initially made up of a thousand deportees. There were 911 when they arrived (the number of deportees who died in the course of the “journey” varies from one convoy to another). Their numbers fell between the “30,000”s and “31,000”s. They arrived at Dora on November 20. On that same day a convoy arrived in Buchenwald from Mauthausen made up in fact of a number of the prisoners from the Wiener Neustadt Kommando. They were numbered above “31,500” and transferred to Dora as of November 23. The convoy of one thousand deportees who arrived from Compiègne on December 16 fell into the “38,000” series. But the last of the “38,000”s were from Alsace-Lorraine, coming from Natzweiler (that is, Struthof). They were transferred to Dora in December, followed by the others in January 1944.
They very nearly succeeded. To start, all members of the SS who served in the camps—and in Auschwitz they numbered several thousand from April 1940 when the camp opened to its liberation in January 1945—had to swear that they would never reveal what they saw. Further, in 1944 German authorities destroyed the transport lists of all Jews who had been sent to Auschwitz up to that point, and in the succeeding months ordered the destruction of all other incriminating documents. Later, as the Russian armies drew near Auschwitz early in 1945, other evidence was either burned or transferred to camps farther west. In mid-January, the SS hastily executed thousands of prisoners; then, sometime after midnight on January 18, they fled, leaving the camp unmanned. Many of the remaining Auschwitz inmates, as Nyiszli describes, in turn took advantage of the suddenly empty towers and open Auschwitz gates to flee the camp, fearing that if they waited the Germans, who were retreating before the Russian offensive, might pause to murder them as well before proceeding west. When the Russians did arrive, on January 27, 1945, they found the bodies of the SS’s final victims. But they also found seven thousand inmates who had chosen not to leave the camp, mostly because they were too ill or weak to flee. Thus, despite their considerable efforts, the Nazis failed to destroy all evidence of the camps. Both the magnitude of the crime itself and the Germans’ predisposition for bureaucratic efficiency made it inevitable that the truth would ultimately be revealed.
10. Bezaut, Oranienburg, Sachsenhausen, pp. 37–38.
Two blocks are well known thanks to the plans drawn by André Lobstein.45 The oldest one, number 16, near the roll-call yard, was used for consultations and administration, and the last one to be built, number 129, housed tubercular patients up at the top of the camp near the new crematorium. He has called it 39A in his contribution to Témoignages strasbourgeois.
The Kapo was a German, Heinz Jessen, and the Schreiber, a Belgian, Louis Clukkers. The surgical ward (Chirurgische Abteilung) was run by Dr. Jacques Desprez, who was the surgeon, and Dr. Paul Lagey. The internal medicine ward was under Dr. Georges Desprez’s authority. Jacques and Georges Desprez were brothers, but had not arrived at Buchenwald by the same convoy, were not arrested together, and by all accounts scarcely had anything to do with each other—not even in the camp.
As I returned to the crematoriums I found myself shivering, and suddenly realized that autumn was here: it was already the end of September. The north wind, sweeping down from the already whitened summits of the mountains, sang through the barbed wires and made the shutters creak ominously. The only bird that inhabited this god-forsaken region, the crow, flashed against the leaden sky. From the crematoriums, built to endure forever, the wind bore clouds of smoke, and with them the characteristic, familiar odor of burning hair and flesh.
We crossed the threshold of the gas chamber with heavy hearts. The whole kommando was present, 200 strong. It was a terrible feeling to remain in this room, knowing that hundreds of thousands of people had met a frightful end here. Besides, we knew that the life of the Sonderkommando was drawing to a close. This being the case, the SS could very easily have closed the gas chamber doors and dumped four cases of cyclon gas down the chimneys to liquidate us all.
10 Susan Zuccotti, The Holocaust, the French and the Jews, Bison Books, 1993, p. 99. Dannecker is the source for the Laval quotation; Laval’s words to the Council of Ministers six days later also tally with this previous statement reported by Dannecker.
MICHEL THOMAS. “Sometime in January or the beginning of February 1945, we were called upon to unload the corpses from the railway cars of a convoy coming from the eastern camps. Most were tattooed. The hundreds of skeletons, we stacked to the side, alongside the crematorium (the side facing the camp), and in many piles. The crematorium—even operating day and night—wasn’t able to keep up, so a pit was dug out behind it. Next, the prisoners of another Kommando, made up of many Russians, stacked wood and corpses; once everything was set well ablaze, the prisoners continued to throw on the bodies—for an entire day.”17
In the camps of the Mittelbau-Dora complex, in spite of the “economization” of all inmate work, the annihilation pressure on the Jewish inmates had not subsided, even though there were no gas chambers at Dora and its satellite camps. The inmates who suffered in the most cruel fashion were those who had been “evacuated” from the annihilation and concentration camps in the winter of 1944–1945 and who, besides their stigmatization as Jewish inmates, had an additional shortcoming. In the view of the SS and the profit-oriented firms, they were wertlos (of no value) because they were completely exhausted and unable to work. This was the consequence, one should remember, of their earlier treatment.
Wilhelm Brasse, who arrived in Auschwitz in August 1940, recalls that the Germans selected Jews and Catholic priests and told them to ‘chant religious songs and hymns’. They would ‘beat the priests and then the Jews, and would yell at them that they were lazy because they didn’t chant loud enough. The impression this made on me was just terrifying. I’ve never imagined anything like this [could happen].’67
Not all Jews in Hungary were sent to Auschwitz. Back in Budapest, Eichmann and other members of the SS were pursuing a parallel strategy in an attempt to extort the Jews’ wealth. Kurt Becher, as head of the economic department of the SS in Hungary, spent his time wresting large quantities of money, jewels and other valuables from Jews in exchange for a promise that their lives would be spared. He allowed members of the Weiss family, for example, one of the richest and most prominent Jewish families in Hungary, to escape to a neutral country once they had transferred ownership of the enormous Weiss Steel and Metal Works to the Nazis.
Linda Breder was part of the first transport from Slovakia to Auschwitz at the end of March. They were also the first female prisoners to enter the camp. On arrival they were marched under the ‘Arbeit macht frei’ – ‘Work makes you free’ – gate at Auschwitz main camp and crammed into one of the prison blocks. There was a struggle, as hundreds of Slovak women were ‘screaming and pushing’ in an attempt to use the handful of toilets in the block. She and the other women slept on the bare floor, huddled together for warmth since ‘it was bitter cold in March in Poland’. The next day she had to undress in front of the SS and a ‘gynaecologist’ probed her most intimate parts to check if she was ‘hiding gold’, before she was forced to bath naked in disinfected icy water: ‘The SS said to us, “You Jews are dirty, you have lice, you have to be clean.” ’48
In addition, I want to express my gratitude to the staff of the Holocaust Educational Trust for their help and support over many years. In particular, the Chairman Paul Phillips, the Chief Executive Karen Pollock and the Head of Education Alex Maws.
In actual fact they were far more likely to be registered on transport lists heading for Dora or Laura—another Buchenwald Kommando that will be mentioned further on. Guy Raoul-Duval, before arriving at Dora in January 1944, remained in Buchenwald, assigned to an outside Kommando in October 1943. According to his recollection, this experience was not too bad.22 In the concentration camp universe, where nothing was ever really sure, many prisoners had a succession of contrasting experiences. This was the case for the Czech prisoners Benès23 and Litomisky,24 who passed through Buchenwald in the autumn of 1943 on their way from Auschwitz to Dora. They felt that they had landed on another planet.
The conditions in which these evacuations took place—as with the many that followed—make it difficult to assess how many people were actually involved. Concerning Auschwitz it is estimated that there was still a population of some 67,000 prisoners in the concentration camp complex in mid-January 1945, 58,000 of whom were evacuated. What is important is the sheer magnitude. In the same manner it is impossible to evaluate the ethnic or national composition of the various convoys. The only certain element was the large proportion of Jews in the overall number. Indeed, the transports at the end of 1944 from Auschwitz to other camps especially affected the non-Jewish prisoners—German, Polish, French, and so on.
The following day, while making my rounds in number two crematorium, the chief of the Sonderkommando there informed me confidentially that during the alert the previous night a group of partisans had slipped into the camp. In an out-of-the-way spot they had cut the barbed wire surrounding the courtyard and slipped three machine guns and twenty hand grenades through the opening. The Sonderkommando men had discovered them early that morning and hidden them in a safe place.
Besides my laboratory and anatomical work, I was also responsible for the medical care of all the crematorium’s SS personnel—about 120 men—as well as the Sonderkommando—about 860 prisoners. Medicines, medical instruments, dressings, all in sufficient quantity, were at my disposal. So that they should receive suitable medical attention, I had to visit all those sick in the crematorium once a day, and sometimes even twice. I could circulate among the four crematoriums without a pass from 7:00 A.M. till 7:00 P.M. I would have to make out a daily report to the SS commandant and to the Sonderkommando Oberschaarführer Mussfeld, listing the number of ill, bed-ridden and ambulatory patients.
At the same time as Heydrich was working on this first version of the ‘final solution’, Himmler was in discussion with Viktor Brack about another method of dealing with the ‘Jewish question’ – mass sterilization. For Himmler, the benefits of a swift method of sterilizing not just Jews but any other targeted group were considerable. Most obviously, sterilized labourers posed no ‘racial’ threat to the people around them since they could not reproduce.73 As a consequence, Brack investigated potential methods of sterilizing people – without those operated on knowing what was happening to them. In a letter dated 28 March 1941, he outlined the challenges: ‘If any persons are to be sterilized permanently, this result can only be attained by applying x-rays in a dosage high enough to produce castration with all its consequences, since high x-ray dosages destroy the internal secretion of the ovary, or of the testicles, respectively.’74 The difficulty with carrying out this procedure in secret was that unless the rest of the body was protected by a lead covering, ‘the other tissues of the body will be injured.’ Brack suggested that ‘one practical way of proceeding’ would be to tell the person to be sterilized to ‘approach a counter’ and fill in some paperwork for ‘two or three minutes’. X-rays could then be turned on while most of the victim’s body was protected by the counter. ‘With a two-valve installation,’ wrote Brack, ‘about 150–200 persons could be sterilized per day, and therefore, with twenty such installations as many as 3,000–4,000 persons per day …’75 As we have seen, sterilization of the disabled and other groups the Nazis did not wish to see procreate, including children from disturbed backgrounds,76 had been taking place since 1933, but Brack’s proposal called for a radical expansion. Subsequently, Himmler did not progress Brack’s idea – though, as we shall see, further sterilization experiments were later conducted at Auschwitz.
Similarly, a common excuse from bureaucrats who collaborated with the Nazis was that they ‘sought to change the system from within’ and that if they had been replaced the situation would have been ‘even worse’. After the war, for instance, Dutch civil servants could point to a number of Nazi measures that were watered down as a result of their involvement. Except that a close examination of the evidence reveals that this excuse lacks validity. That is because the Nazi Reichskommissar’s practice was to make deliberately excessive demands, so as to allow the civil servants to think that they had accomplished something when he subsequently reduced his requests to the level he had intended all along. By this simple trick the Nazi leadership helped ensure the administrative cooperation of the civil servants.42
9 Filip Müller, Eyewitness Auschwitz: Three Years in the Gas Chambers, Ivan R. Dee, 1999, p. 153.
Pilgrimages to former concentration camps
Houston Stewart Chamberlain, a writer born in England who later became a German citizen, introduced an anti-Semitic dimension to all of this in his Die Grundlagen des XIX. Jahrhunderts (Foundations of the Nineteenth Century), published in 1899. The book achieved a wide readership – and not just in Germany. In his effusive Introduction to the English edition, Lord Redesdale wrote that the book had been ‘speedily declared to be one of the masterpieces of the century’ and that the ‘full fruit’ of Chamberlain’s ‘learning and scholarship’ had now ‘ripened for the good of the world’.21 Chamberlain argued that while the Aryans represented the ultimate ideal, the Jew embodied precisely the reverse. Even though some Jews might be hard to tell apart from Aryans at first sight, the reality was that all Jews were an ‘alien Asiatic people’ who had ‘by the vilest means acquired immense wealth’.22 However, since only the Jews and the Germanic race had managed to keep themselves ‘pure’, it followed that these two ‘races’ – the Aryan and the Jew – were engaged in a mighty struggle for supremacy.
On April 7th, 1945, the string of arc lights set on top of the poles to which the barbed wires were fastened did not come on. Darkness and silence closed in on the abandoned spot. The camp was empty, the gate closed. The 7,000 prisoners had been taken farther inland, first by boat, then along the roads swarming with refugees. For seven long days and nights we traveled, till at last we reached our new destination, the Ebensee concentration camp, the fourth KZ through whose yawning gates I had passed.
As the former Dora prisoners were preoccupied with putting together and publishing their memoirs, historians were doing important work focusing on various aspects of rocket production in the Reich. There was first of all the Canadian Michael J. Neufeld’s book, published in 1995 and entitled The Rocket and the Reich: Peenemünde and the Coming of the Ballistic Missile Era. It made it possible to follow, on a technical level, all the stages in the invention of rockets, from the first attempts of the amateur enthusiasts in the 1920s until the collapse of the Reich in 1945. At the same time it made it possible to situate precisely the competencies and rivalries of the various people involved throughout this whole period: the Wehrmacht artillerymen, the scientists and engineers, the technocrats from the Arms Ministry and their counterparts in the big companies, and finally the SS, providing the concentration camp labor force and ultimately taking control over firing the V2s.
The Sonderkommando squad, outfitted with large rubber boots, lined up around the hill of bodies and flooded it with powerful jets of water. This was necessary because the final act of those who die by drowning or by gas is an involuntary defecation. Each body was befouled, and had to be washed. Once the “bathing” of the dead was finished—a job the Sonderkommando carried out by a voluntary act of impersonalization and in a state of profound distress—the separation of the welter of bodies began. It was a difficult job. They knotted thongs around the wrists, which were clenched in a viselike grip, and with these thongs they dragged the slippery bodies to the elevators in the next room. Four good-sized elevators were functioning. They loaded twenty to twenty-five corpses to an elevator. The ring of a bell was the signal that the load was ready to ascend. The elevator stopped at the crematorium’s incineration room, where large sliding doors opened automatically. The kommando who operated the trailers was ready and waiting. Again straps were fixed to the wrists of the dead, and they were dragged onto specially constructed chutes which unloaded them in front of the furnaces.
As for the relationship between the German Jews and the first concentration camps, it was not a straightforward one. In his speech in March 1933, Himmler went out of his way to stress that Jews would not be targeted simply for being Jews: ‘I must emphasize one point in particular: for us a citizen of the Jewish faith is just as much a citizen as someone who is not of the Jewish faith and his life and property are subject to the same protection. We make no distinction in this respect.’48 It was an odd statement for Himmler to make, especially when his own party’s programme denied that the Jews were ‘true’ Germans. He probably made these disingenuous remarks as much for a foreign audience – in order to counter the alleged ‘atrocity propaganda’ – as for a domestic one. In any case, his Stormtroopers did not follow his instruction. A proportion of the Communist and socialist politicians sent to the camps were Jewish, and these Jews were often singled out for harsher treatment than was imposed on the other prisoners. Max Abraham, for example, wrote Juda verrecke. Ein Rabbiner im Konzentrationslager (Death to Juda: A Rabbi in a Concentration Camp) after he managed to leave Germany. In the book, published in 1934, Abraham recorded his own treatment at the hands of the Nazis, just months after Hitler came to power.
Nonetheless, the dismissive way in which many of those involved in the decision-making process treated the question of the bombing of Auschwitz – one of McCloy’s staff even wrote an inter-office memo admitting that McCloy wanted to ‘kill’ the idea4 – reflects a broader issue of significance. It is encapsulated by a question to the Allies posed by David Ben Gurion, chairman of the Jewish Agency executive and later one of the founders of modern Israel, in a speech on 10 July 1944: ‘If instead of Jews, thousands of English, American or Russian women, children and aged had been tortured every day, burnt to death, asphyxiated in gas chambers – would you have acted in the same way?’5
Leo Adler died of a heart attack at the age of sixty-three – in 1978, two years after Jan Zwartendijk. He’d never had the time or leisure to get in touch with the consul who had made it possible for him and Bella to escape the Holocaust. Or else he’d chosen not to. He and Bella had struggled to survive for so long that they were in the habit of keeping their minds on the present and future.
Perhaps a remark on the universal success of the Diary of Anne Frank may stress how much we all wish to subscribe to this business-as-usual philosophy, and to forget that it hastens our destruction. It is an onerous task to take apart such a humane, such a moving story that arouses so much compassion for gentle Anne Frank. But I believe that the worldwide acclaim of her story cannot be explained unless we recognize our wish to forget the gas chambers and to glorify the attitude of going on with business-as-usual, even in a holocaust. While the Franks were making their preparations for going passively into hiding, thousands of other Jews in Holland and elsewhere in Europe were trying to escape to the free world, the better to be able to fight their executioners. Others who could not do so went underground—not simply to hide from the SS, waiting passively, without preparation for fight, for the day when they would be caught—but to fight the Germans, and with it for humanity. All the Franks wanted was to go on with life as much as possible in the usual fashion. Little Anne, too, wanted only to go on with life as usual, and nobody can blame her. But hers was certainly not a necessary fate, much less a heroic one; it was a senseless fate. The Franks could have faced the facts and survived, as did many Jews living in Holland. Anne could have had a good chance to survive, as did many Jewish children in Holland. But for that she would have had to be separated from her parents and gone to live with a Dutch family as their own child. Everybody who recognized the obvious knew that the hardest way to go underground was to do it as a family; that to hide as a family made detection by the SS most likely. The Franks, with their excellent connections among gentile Dutch families should have had an easy time hiding out singly, each with a different family. But instead of planning for this, the main principle of their planning was to continue as much as possible with the kind of family life they were accustomed to. Any other course would have meant not merely giving up the beloved family life as usual, but also accepting as reality man’s inhumanity to man. Most of all it would have forced their acceptance that business-as-usual was not an absolute value, but can sometimes be the most destructive of all attitudes. There is little doubt that the Franks, who were able to provide themselves with so much, could have provided themselves with a gun or two had they wished. They could have shot down at least one or two of the SS men who came for them. There was no surplus of SS men. The loss of an SS with every Jew arrested would have noticeably hindered the functioning of the police state. The fate of the Franks wouldn’t have been any different, because they all died anyway except for Anne’s father, though he hardly meant to pay for his survival with the extermination of his whole family. They could have sold their lives dearly instead of walking to their death.
The background to this immense German success is significant in the context of the development of the Holocaust because of the change in perception of Hitler that occurred as a result of the victory. Towards the end of 1939 senior figures in the German Army had considered removing Hitler from power. Not because they were outraged by the appalling atrocities the Germans were committing in occupied Poland, but because they believed that Hitler was leading Germany to disaster by planning to invade western Europe. General Franz Halder, Chief of Staff of the German Army, wrote in his diary on 3 November 1939, ‘None of the Higher Hq [Headquarters] thinks that the offensive ordered by OKW [the Supreme Command of the Wehrmacht, which worked directly for Hitler] has any prospect of success.’75 One senior officer expressed his view more succinctly, saying the invasion plan was simply ‘mad’.76
The organization for this future operation was coordinated by number three crematorium, and had contacts in all the others. The whole affair was being conducted with the utmost care and circumspection. Death stalked our every move, in the form of the lethal machine guns manned by our guards. We wanted to live. We wanted to get out of here. But even if most of us failed to make it, even if only one or two escaped, we would still have won out, for there would then be someone to tell the world about the dark mysteries of these death factories.
In January 1944, in the framework of Operation Meerschaum (sea foam), fifty-six hundred French (or foreigners arrested in France) were deported in three convoys that arrived in Buchenwald on January 19, 24, and 29. The numbers subsequently go from 39400 to the upper “44,000”s. Overall, the prisoners of the two first convoys sent to Dora arrived there in several transports in February and went into the tunnel. Those from the third convoy arrived in March and remained in the camp. Of course, these indications are schematic. Some French prisoners remained at Buchenwald for some time before being sent on to Dora. André Guichard (14890) arrived only in December 1943, and Guy Raoul-Duval (21693) in January 1944.
“One day, we had stopped in a small station in Sudetenland, when a train of prisoners from Buchenwald arrived. The next day, the SS went through all the freight cars shouting ‘Juden raus!’ ‘Jews get out!’ I got out with some twenty comrades. We were expecting the worst. We were left standing in front of the freight car, in a single row, for an hour. Then, to our surprise, we were given bread to eat and even sausage, and told to go and join the convoy opposite us, where the same sorting process had been carried out. There, we were given half a liter of warm soup and we got into the freight cars.
21 From Sachsenhausen and Ravensbrück to the Schwerin Region
20 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 162.
10 Christopher Browning, The Origins of the Final Solution, Heinemann, 2004, p. 417.
One characteristic common to all the prisoners, whatever their function may have been, was no longer to be referred to by name but rather by an identity number. Everyone had to be able to state his number in German and above all to recognize it when it was called out. The number was assigned upon arrival in a large camp, a main camp often referred to as the Stammlager. Someone leaving a large camp for a Kommando that depended on it did not change his identity number. Thus prisoners from Dora continued to wear the number they had been assigned upon their arrival at Buchenwald, just as the prisoners from Wiener Neustadt continued to wear their number from Mauthausen. But the moment they were transferred—as will be seen later—from Wiener Neustadt to Dora via Buchenwald, they were given numbers from Buchenwald. Michel Fliecx and André Rogerie’s changes in identity numbers will be pointed out further on. The recollection of their identity number or numbers is not only a sort of proof of deportation for former prisoners—as it has been alleged—but also a way of situating them amid successive convoys. Reference will frequently be made, with regard to Dora, to the “14,000s,” the “20,000s,” and the “21,000s” or, later on, of the “77,000s.” This way of speaking is convenient for those concerned, as for the author who is himself a “39,000.”
By early April 1945 what was left of Germany between the Rhine and Oder rivers, including Austria and Bohemia-Moravia, was to be conquered within six weeks until the capitulation on May 8. The entire surviving concentration camp population was still located in this restricted territory, either in the camps (in descending order from north to south) of Neuengamme, Ravensbrück, Sachsenhausen, Bergen-Belsen, Dora-Mittelbau, Buchenwald, Flossenbürg, Mauthausen, and Dachau, or in their innumerable Kommandos.
From the outset, however, Dora was a very particular Kommando—as will be shown in chapter 4—since the prospective camp was to be closely linked to a factory within a company, the commander of the camp being one of the directors. Dora then became, in the autumn of 1944, an autonomous camp—the last of the main camps created in Nazi Germany. For a year the link between Buchenwald and Dora continued, and the prisoners in Dora who went through Buchenwald—the vast majority, that is—kept their number from Buchenwald right to the end. Thus the recollections of Dora veterans generally begin with a chapter on Buchenwald.
In the summer of 1941 it wasn’t immediately obvious to the Nazis that gas chambers were the most suitable way forward. Widmann and his team also tried – almost unbelievably – imprisoning mental patients in a bunker and blowing them up. The experiment was not a success from the Nazis’ point of view. ‘The sight was atrocious,’ said Wilhelm Jaschke, an officer in Einsatzkommando 8. ‘Some wounded came out of the dugout crawling and crying … Body parts were scattered on the ground and hanging in the trees.’68 After the failure of this attempt to murder people, Widmann, Nebe and their colleagues turned their attention once again to carbon monoxide. Was there a way of creating this gas, so effective in killing the disabled in Germany, without using the canisters? The answer turned out to be all around them – in the exhaust gases expelled from cars and trucks. At a mental hospital in Mogilev in Belarus, the Nazis locked patients into a sealed room and piped in exhaust gases from a car engine. When this turned out not to produce enough poisonous gas, they tried a larger engine from a truck until they succeeded in murdering everyone in the room.
As a result of this diabolically conceived notice, twenty thousand women and children who wanted only to ease their husbands’ lot, to join their fathers, followed them into the gas chambers and crematory ovens.
The author’s account is the same:23 “I arrived at Buchenwald in the first convoy of January 1944, and, like others, was summoned to meet someone who, I learned, was from the Dora factory. He was young and rather kindly and he spoke French. He asked me what my profession was. I told him I was a professor of history and geography, and that seemed to satisfy him. He was disappointed by my ignorance of German. He told me that he had classified me as an ‘electrician,’ insisting on the word. A few days later, I arrived at Dora, and the electricians were called to assemble. I presented myself, along with others. That is how I became a member of the Kontrolle Scherer Kommando where, like Filipcic, who was a young schoolteacher, I was to remain. In the list of the transport from Buchenwald to Dora on 11 February, my profession was marked ‘Elektromonteur-lehrer,’ teacher-electricity installer.” A few months later von Braun and Dr. Simon went in person to make their selection among the prisoners in Buchenwald.
Neither the Americans nor the Soviets afterward were particularly interested in the concentration camps they found that had been emptied of their prisoners, in the midst of all the camps in the region that still housed thousands of German civilians and foreign workers. Only the firsthand accounts of the survivors of these camps have preserved the memory of their existence.
At the request of the Holocaust Center, and above all with the encouragement of Jan Zwartendijk junior, who had stumbled across his name, Rabbi Tokayer did research in the Kobe city archives and the Jewcom archives. He traced the journey of 2,178 Jewish refugees from Kaunas to Japan, and supplied an abundance of information on the numbers of men and women, their ages (although he overlooked many children, he did learn of niniety-nine boys and 114 girls aged one to fifteen), and their occupations: fifteen physicians, sixty-two engineers, sixty-one lawyers, 233 officials, seventy-nine rabbis, and 341 rabbinical students. The large number of Jewish rabbis and religious teachers in training led The Jerusalem Post, which covered the story on 29 June 1996, to run a hyperbolic headline: ‘Jan Zwartendijk, The Man Who Saved Judaism’.
Freda, her father and her three brothers had been selected to work. Though the Nazis intended all Jews to die eventually, this was at least a postponement of execution. So by sending Marcel towards their mother, David had ensured that he joined the group that had been chosen to die at once. Marcel, as a thirteen-year-old, was borderline for selection and so the SS must not have cared if he went with his mother to be murdered. As Freda says, David’s actions ‘would have been the right thing [to do] in different circumstances’. But, amid the inhumanity of Auschwitz, ‘it was the wrong decision.’
Auschwitz had by now become a vast enterprise that encompassed many different functions and goals – and the lines between them all were sometimes blurred. That was certainly the case with the treatment of Polish political prisoners. The personal history of Tadeusz Smreczyński, for instance, demonstrates how the suffering of non-Jewish Poles became linked in the gas chambers of Birkenau with that of the Jews. Tadeusz was fifteen years old when the Germans invaded Poland in September 1939. He lived with his family in Zator, only a few miles from Auschwitz. The Germans prevented Poles like him from receiving any further education and he was forced to leave school. In September 1940, at the age of sixteen, he was sent to Germany to work as a forced labourer, but in November he escaped, and fled to Kraków where he lived with an aunt. Five months later he returned home to Zator in the hope that the Germans had forgotten about him. He now started, on his own initiative, to work against the Germans. He helped people cross the nearby border between Upper Silesia, which had been incorporated into the Reich, and the General Government. He also produced leaflets criticizing the Germans. In December 1943 he developed a plan to help Poles imprisoned in the nearby camps and, as a first step, passed on several bread-ration cards to a friend. ‘He was planning to get some bread,’ says Tadeusz, ‘and give it away to the prisoners when SS men were not around. I arranged these coupons for him. Unfortunately he had a tendency to drink alcohol and he got involved in a brawl at the railway station in Auschwitz. He was subsequently arrested and those coupons were found on him. He told me later that he was beaten and had no choice but to disclose that I had fled Germany and that I had distributed the leaflets and assisted the fugitives.’14
33 Rudolf Reder, Belzec, Auschwitz Museum, 1999, p. 115.
While Eicke attempted to mould the SS guards at Dachau into a professional yet heartless force, a parallel structure of concentration camps operated in the north of Germany. Hermann Göring as Minister President of Prussia oversaw this system – or rather tried to, since he had difficulty restraining the Stormtroopers and SS in his domain. In Prussia there was no Eicke to prevent the brutality of the guards turning to anarchy.
31 Susan Zuccotti, The Holocaust, the French and the Jews, Bison Books, 1999, p. 3.
Himmler’s second visit took place on June 28, 1943. For the occasion, von Braun apparently wore his SS uniform—one of the few times he is known to have done so. He was then promoted to Sturmbannführer—that is, major.30 But this was not how the SS managed to get itself involved, in mid-1943, in rocket production. It was by providing a concentration camp workforce.
“Johnny was not American, but French. His real name was Jean Marcel Nicolas. He was born in 1918 in Haiti. His parents came from Guadeloupe and were French citizens. He had learned American English from the Marines based in Haiti. Jean did a part of his studies in France and served for a time in the French Navy. He was living in France when the war broke out. During the German occupation, he claimed he was a pilot with the US Air Force and called himself Johnny Nicolas. He did intelligence work for the Allies, but was denounced in Paris by his ‘girlfriend.’ He was sent to Buchenwald, then to Dora. He survived the war, but died in France in September 1945. According to Dr. Groeneveld, Johnny was a boy with a character, who knew German well, which allowed him to survive and help out his fellow prisoners in the camp.” Johnny was a phenomenon who fascinated a good many prisoners, especially the young Russians who had never seen a black man before.
For every convoy it was the same story. Red Cross cars brought the gas from the outside. There was never a stock of it in the crematorium. The precaution was scandalous, but still more scandalous was the fact that the gas was brought in a car bearing the insignia of the International Red Cross.
28 Testimony of unknown inmate, discovered in 1954, Sachsenhausen Museum.
36 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 214.
The pyre was located about five or six hundred yards from number four crematorium, directly behind the little birch forest of Birkenau, in a clearing surrounded by pines. It lay outside the KZ’s electric barbed wire fence, between the first and second lines of guards. Since I was not authorized to venture so far from the actual confines of the camp, I requested some sort of written permission from the office. They issued me a safe conduct good for three persons, for I planned on taking two men with me to help carry the material back to the crematorium.
Jews from Slovakia were not just deported to Auschwitz. At least 24,000 Slovak Jews were transferred to a new murder facility at Sobibór, about 50 miles north-east of Lublin. Sobibór was, after Bełżec, the second camp built as an extermination centre with fixed gas chambers. Like Bełżec the camp was close to a railway line, but the location was even more remote – in forest and marshland a few miles from the River Bug. The countryside around Sobibór was peaceful and picturesque, and the camp was designed to look inviting. ‘I imagined Sobibór as a place where they burn people, where they gas people, so it must look like hell,’ says Toivi Blatt who was sent to the camp in April 1943, at a time when ‘rumours’ about the true function of the place had been circulating for months. ‘And now what I see is actually nice houses, plus the commandant’s villa, painted green with a little fence and flowers.’57
convoys from Auschwitz and Gross Rosen
WILHELM SIMON. Labor allocation manager in Mittelbau. Born 1900. Entered Nazi Party and SS in 1932. Held various bureaucratic posts, 1935–1941. Entered active SS duty as a guard at Buchenwald, 1941. Became an assistant to the labor allocation manager at Buchenwald, summer 1942. December 1, 1943, named labor allocation manager for Mittelbau. In May 1945 transferred to a Wehrmacht unit. Within days he was captured, then either released or escaped. In 1947 the Americans tried him for his crimes and sentenced him to life in prison, but he gained release in 1954.
In the weeks following Himmler’s visit, Nebe experimented with different killing techniques with the help of Dr Albert Widmann of the Technical Institute of the Criminal Police. Widmann’s presence in Minsk was a sign of the growing involvement in the killings in the east of the team that had worked on the T4 euthanasia scheme. Widmann, as we have seen, had helped devise the gas chambers in the euthanasia centres.
45 The total for Treblinka is given in the decoded telegram as 71,355, but this is an obvious misprint, as in order to get the total contained in the telegram of 1,274,166 the number killed at Treblinka has to be 713,555 – a number that is also confirmed as credible by other documentary evidence.
One important political consequence of the reunification was the reappearance of Länder in eastern Germany. The division into Länder, bearing historical names, dating from 1945, had been replaced in 1952 by a division into smaller Bezirke, named according to their principal towns. Thuringia, for instance, had been divided into the Bezirke of Erfurt, Gera, and Suhl. The German Democratic Republic (GDR) was an authoritarian and centralized state. On October 14, 1990, however, elections were held in the reconstituted Länder, and the governments were given real decision-making power in the realm of culture—extending, for instance, to concentration camp memorials.
In one respect, Michel and Annette were fortunate. Unbeknown to them, their father had been trying to get them released for weeks. Through an intermediary he managed to bribe French officials so that they were transferred from Drancy to a holding centre in Montmartre. Here the security was more lax, and he succeeded in taking them away and hiding them in a Catholic orphanage. Most of the other children held in Drancy had no such saviour working to protect them. They were on their own. Had Michel and Annette’s father not escaped the initial round-up on 16–17 July, they too would almost certainly have been sent on one of the seven trains that left Drancy for Auschwitz in late August, carrying the newly orphaned children to their deaths.
8. Cardon-Hamet, Mille Otages pour Auschwitz, pp. 413–17.
During the first months the LÄ1 and 2 were communists named Georg Thomas and Ludwig Sczymczak, who arrived at Buchenwald after the first convoy. They were relieved of their functions in February 1944 for refusing to carry out hangings, and camp management was placed in the hands of Willy Zwiener, a Green. It would appear, however, that the second most influential person after Förschner, the camp commander, was another Red, Albert Kuntz, the Bautechniker, who was in charge of camp construction.
Outside the corpses piled up, as Max Oesch87 writes: “They were dying in the Revier, dying in the Blocks, dying in the work Kommandos, dying during roll call. All these scrawny corpses were stacked up outside, exactly four steps from the window of my room.” (There was no more gas for the truck that took the cadavers to the Dora crematorium.) “When there got to be about three hundred in the stack, all the bodies were taken to the pyre on the roll-call grounds. It was first of all a pile of straw, on which wooden crosspieces that had been soaked with tar were aligned. The cadavers were placed next to one another, top-to-tail, along two rows. Up above, other crosspieces were placed and then two more rows added. And so on. The next day, in the early morning, someone would set fire to the straw. A thick, acrid smoke would inundate the camp, all day long. In the evening, whatever was still burning was covered over with earth, because of the Anglo-American aircraft.”
I also planned to ask him to be lenient with my work in the future if it proved to be inaccurate. Why? Because, no later than yesterday, October 6th, 1944, when I had been ordered to perform an autopsy on the body of a Russian officer and to prepare the dissection report, number three crematorium had blown up before my eyes, and we had been attacked by a battalion of SS troops. Howitzers had been brought up and police dogs unleashed against us. Hand grenades had exploded around us. SS soldiers, with fixed bayonets, had charged into this so-called scientific institute I was supposed to direct and run us into the courtyard, striking and kicking us as we went. Then we had been made to lie down in the mud. I had come within a hair’s breadth of being transformed from a coroner into a subject for dissection myself. It was true that Dr. Mengele had saved me from this fate and rescued me from the rows of the damned, but only to be returned to this house of sorrow for a new reprieve of four months. I would ask him to admit, frankly, what an impossible situation ours had been yesterday afternoon and evening. For even after the worst was over, I had yet had to give first aid to two SS non-coms who five hours earlier had kicked and struck me unmercifully and then waited, their guns aimed at my head, for the signal to pull the trigger.
Himmler’s order is a key moment in the history of the Holocaust – a vital part of an evolutionary process. At the start of 1942 the Nazis did not know for sure how many Jews they were going to kill in the short term. For Heydrich at Wannsee the confrontation with the Jews was still potentially a long-term process of attrition with large numbers of Jews worked to death over a period of time. What Himmler did in July 1942 was to say in effect, ‘We will kill vast numbers of Jews, right now.’ While that was a leap forward, it was one that was possible only because the Nazis had previously embarked on a gradual process of killing selected Jews. Only because of that past history, and the experience that they had gained along the way, could Himmler now be confident of committing mass murder on such a scale.
When the two pyres were operating simultaneously, the output varied from five to six thousand dead a day. Slightly better than the crematoriums, but here death was a thousand times more terrible, for here one died twice, first by a bullet in the back of the neck, then by fire.
The Dora trial is not referred to as such in the archives. It is either designated as the Nordhausen War Crimes Case, or as the United States of America v. Kurt Andrae et al. Although the name of Nordhausen was emphasized to describe the trial, there is no equivocation. Aside from the title, the documents, starting with the bill of indictment, constantly refer to Dora. One can suppose that it was the discovery on April 11, 1945, of the Boelcke Kaserne in Nordhausen and the notoriety given to this discovery that determined the choice of title. The second formula is a commonplace of American case law: the name of the first of the accused is indicated, followed by “and others.” With regard to the Buchenwald trial the title was United States of America v. Prince Josias zu Waldeck et al. In the absence of any prince at Dora, the first of the accused was taken in alphabetical order, though Kurt Andrae was not really the most important.
Next the SS tried to conduct the evacuation of the Buchenwald camp itself. They succeeded in organizing a few convoys either with prisoners living in the camp or prisoners coming from satellite Kommandos or prisons. That was the case of the Kommando to which Bertrand belonged.
The women asked me if everything they had heard about the crematoriums was true. What was the smoke you saw pouring from the chimneys during the day, and the flames that replaced it at night? I tried to reassure them, denying everything.
2 Michael J. Neufeld and Michael Berenbaum (eds.), The Bombing of Auschwitz, St Martin’s Press, 2000, Martin Gilbert, The Contemporary Case for the Feasibility of Bombing Auschwitz, p. 70. And see Martin Gilbert’s lecture to the US Holocaust Memorial Museum, 8 November 1993, http://www.winstonchurchill.org.
57 Uriel Tal, ‘Political Faith’ of Nazism Prior to the Holocaust, Tel Aviv University, 1978, p. 28. Rees, Charisma, pp. 81–2.
Chapter 14. The End of Auschwitz and Peenemünde
WVHA. See also Administration, Nazi Party; Concentration camps; Evacuation of camps; Punishments.
10. The only studies thus far on this subject were presented by Christa Naumann on the satellite camps of Buchenwald and by Wolfgang Kirstein on the camp complex of Natzweiler. Cf. Christa Naumann, Das arbeitsteilige Zusammenwirken von SS und deutschen Rüstungskonzernen 1942–1945: Dargestellt am Beispiel der Aussenkommandos des Konzentrationslagers Buchenwald (diss. Humboldt-Univ. Ost-Berlin, 1973); Wolfgang Kirstein, Das Konzentrationslager als Institution totalen Terrors: Das Beispiel des Kl. Natzweiler, Freiburger Arbeiten zur Soziologie der Diktatur, 2 (Pfaffenweiler, 1992).
As far as the French are concerned, the most recent statement issued by Pierre Durand in 1991 might well serve as the basis for several observations concerning Dora. It is obvious that in late 1943 and early 1944 certain practices enabled certain Frenchmen to avoid the “transports” from Buchenwald to Dora because they were recognized as communists. Conversely, others were classified in such a way as to make their transfer unavoidable. A single quotation from Durand58 will suffice here, for it is characteristic: “Marcel Petit knew one of those false Communists who played a harmful role in the relations between French and German prisoners. He was one of those people who was ready to play any card to his own advantage. I am not confusing these people with the Communists I knew later on, under difficult circumstances. [ . . . ] The fellow I am talking about—we’ll call him ‘Maufaix’—had succeeded in gaining the trust of the Block chief, Erich, in the quarantine camp where we had been since our arrival by the third convoy from Compiègne in January 1944. He claimed to be a Communist and had acquired a privileged position in the Block. He ‘helped’ Erich determine the political opinions of each person. Only later did I learn that he had categorized me as a rather suspect ‘bourgeois reactionary.’ I tried to let Erich know that his trust had been misplaced, but was unable to do so. The individual in question was not unmasked until later on, but by then, he had already done a great deal of harm.” Louis Garnier,59 who was in the same convoy and had talked with Petit, knew the name that “Maufaix” was using at the time and that he was suspected of having denounced his comrades in Toulouse. It was impossible to locate him after 1945. Gamier also knew that the same character appears in the account given by Rassinier,60 who was also in the same convoy, under the name of the “little gimp” who claimed to have identified Thälmann and Breitscheid at Buchenwald. Petit, as was stated earlier, went to Dora and was assigned to the Revier. He saw Rassinier there and later agreed, out of indulgence, to serve as a moral witness for him in a trial.
This was one of the serious problems of daily life in the first months of Dora: that of insecurity—and in this regard the contrast with Buchenwald is striking. There are any number of anecdotes regarding provisions. They have to do, in the first place, with the distribution of rations, initially carried out in the “blocks” represented by the tunnel dormitories. The Czech, Otakar Litomisky, became the Schreiber of one of them whose Blockältester, Kurt Kemeter, was a German Red who had fought in Spain. Litomisky relates with pride that the Czechs in his block built a wooden distribution counter with a window for handing out food while checking identity numbers. He adds that in the other blocks it was impossible to do so without the help of the SS.12
48 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 63.
There exists no coherent iconography dealing with any particular concentration camp. Of course a certain number of photographs taken here and there in the camps were subsequently discovered, but they were never representative of a whole, whether of the prisoners at work on the work sites or in the factories, or of daily life in the camps themselves. The photographs that illustrate books dealing with the camps are most often those taken by Allied troops at the time of the camp’s liberation. Thus they show either the prisoners’ joy as they acclaimed their liberators or dramatic scenes of emaciated prisoners or cadavers.
The Ninth Fort is just outside Kaunas. From July 1941 to the end of the war, it was a concentration camp. No one stayed there longer than a few days before being executed in the long trench behind the walls of the fort. The bullet holes are still visible, so many that they must have been made by machine guns. To the west of the fort is the mass grave, a slight bulge stretching for kilometres.
As noted in chapter 4, after the bombing of Peenemünde the decision was made to scatter the sites involved in V2 production. At the same time the Kohn-stein Tunnel was being adapted for assembly, propulsion-system test centers were being installed both at Lehesten, in a slate quarry in the south of Thuringia, and in Redl-Zipf, in Upper Austria. The camp set up near Lehesten for prisoners sent from Buchenwald was given the name Laura at the same time the camp near Kohnstein was named Dora.
46 Note also the timing of the change from sending the Łódź Jews to Chełmno to sending them to Birkenau. That’s because by the start of August the mass killing of Hungarian Jews at Auschwitz was over and the gas chambers of Birkenau now had the spare capacity to kill the Łódź Jews.
PAUL RASSINIER. Prisoner. Born 1906. Arrested by Gestapo for resistance activities, 1943, sent first to Buchenwald, then to Mittelbau. In the 1950s he began to publish works that questioned the existence of the Holocaust; in one work he asserted, for example, “with regard to gas chambers . . . never at any moment did the responsible authorities of the Third Reich intend to order—or in fact, order—the extermination of the Jews in this or any other manner” (from a collection of his writings, The Holocaust Story and the Lies of Ulysses [Costa Mesa, Calif., Institute for Historical Review, 1978], p. 270). He has been characterized as the father of the so-called revisionist school, whose representatives continue to refer to his works.
However, there was one direct causal link between the views he expressed about the Jews in Mein Kampf and what was to come. That’s because, believing as he did that the Jews had sabotaged Germany’s chance of winning the First World War from behind the front line, he was determined that they would never get the chance to do the same thing again. ‘That race of criminals has on its conscience the two million dead of the [First] World War,’ he said in private on 25 October 1941, two years into the Second World War, ‘and now already hundreds of thousands more …’14 The idea that there was a straightforward ‘lesson’ to be taken from the First World War and that this legitimized the Holocaust is something that we will encounter later.
All these murders took place against the background of the bloodiest war in history. And the course of that war would, in turn, influence the extent to which the Nazis’ allies were willing to cooperate with the Holocaust. But it was not always easy, during 1942, for observers to work out exactly what the result of the war was likely to be.
37 Longerich, Holocaust, p. 136.
THE EVACUATION OF LANGENSTEIN. The circumstances surrounding this evacuation are among the best known, thanks to the work of Paul Le Goupil,23 who has already been quoted in chapter 13. He himself was part of “Column no. 1,” and he noted down the route it took. He gathered and analyzed various firsthand accounts, including a considerable one by the Pole Rudolf John. In his memoirs he discusses this period. The evacuation took place in two stages: first the SS fled from the American forces, then from the Soviets within a gradually shrinking area. After hesitating, the camp commander ordered the evacuation on Monday morning, April 9, 1945. The circumstances no longer permitted a withdrawal to the main camp of Buchenwald as the other Kommandos had done. This time the group had to go east. The camp head count was nearly 4,900 prisoners. Some 3,000 of them left that night on foot, in six columns of 500 prisoners. The rest of them, as already noted, would not see the Americans arrive until April 13.
When the Dutch Jews entered the camp, many believed the Nazi lie that they had arrived at a hygiene stop. ‘This trap was so perfect,’ says Toivi Blatt, one of the Sonderkommando who dealt with the Dutch transports, ‘that I’m sure that when they were in the gas chambers and gas came out instead of water, probably they were thinking that this was some kind of malfunction … When the job was finished, when they were already taken out of the gas chambers to be burnt, I remember thinking to myself that it was a beautiful night [with] the stars really quiet … Three thousand people died [in that one transport]. Nothing happened. The stars are in the same place.’34
The evacuation column from Schwarzheide,28 which was a satellite camp of Sachsenhausen located north of Dresden, also ended up in the same region. It set out on April 19 after the Soviets had crossed the Oder. It went across southern Lusace and reached Warnsdorf west of Zittau in Sudetenland on April 24.
In the late afternoon of 6 August, Zwartendijk had taken his son to the courtyard behind the Philips office. He had invited his employees, De Haan and Van Prattenburg, to join him as he burned all the consulate’s papers and paraphernalia: the archives, the list of visas issued to Jews, and the stamps. After 6 August, so the story went, no hint of the rescue operation remained; all the physical evidence had been destroyed.
Zerach (Zorach) Warhaftig incorporated his personal experiences into the much broader-ranging study Refugee and Survivor: rescue efforts during the Holocaust (University of Michigan, 1988), digitised in 2006. I drew some telling details from the obituary published by Lawrence Joffe in The Guardian on 8 October 2002, ‘Zerah Warhaftig: a founding father of modern Israel’.
In a parallel initiative, the Germans were keen for the Slovaks to hand over workers who could be used as forced labour. The Slovak government were not that eager to help – until they thought of an alternative. They asked if perhaps 20,000 of these workers could be Jews. The Slovak government, strongly anti-Semitic, would be glad of the opportunity to deport them. The German Foreign Office replied to this proposal on 16 February 1942, saying that they would be prepared to accept these Jews ‘in the course of the measures taken toward a final solution of the European Jewish question’.40 But it subsequently transpired that the Slovaks wanted to hand over entire Jewish families, and the Germans had no desire to take them. They just sought Jews who could work. In the light of the Wannsee conference, this appears a curious development. Didn’t the Nazis want to have all the Jews they could find deported to the east? But it is still part of a pattern. Eichmann and others charged with the practical application of the strategy outlined at Wannsee were well aware that there simply wasn’t the current capacity in camps in Poland to accept non-working Jews from Slovakia. In February 1942, for example, Bełżec was still a month away from opening.
As we have already seen, the security levels at Auschwitz were of a higher level than other death camps like Sobibór and Treblinka. The crematoria/gas-chamber buildings were in their own fenced-off sub-camps within the giant complex of Auschwitz Birkenau, which itself sat within the security area of the Auschwitz zone of interest. There had been attempts at a mass breakout before – most notably a revolt of Poles within the penal company at Birkenau on 10 June 1942. But of the fifty or so prisoners who attempted that escape, only one is known for certain to have survived.
One may note that there were few Spaniards. There were, however, many Spanish Republicans in the first convoy from Compiègne in January 1944. Like Jorge Semprun, who arrived with the third convoy, they remained at Buchenwald.
The tremendous wear and tear on the construction project inmates in the last months of war is repeatedly described in the literature as evidence of an ideologically motivated annihilation objective of the SS—an overriding goal that not only dominated economic considerations but virtually worked against them. For example, one of the principal proponents of this thesis, Herman Kaienburg, wrote in his 1981 case study of the Neuengamme camp that the cause of the inhuman conditions, in the last analysis, had not been the economic endeavors. “Rather, the intent was to annihilate the [camp] inmates. The ruthless work assignments were a method by which to realize these intentions.”44 Such stubborn insistence on perceiving an intentionalist and ultimately single-cause thesis of a long-planned annihilation program—except for some war-economy concessions—failed to comprehend the dynamics of a process that was shaped by the interactions of real and assumed political, economic, and military factors as well as by ideological imperatives. Racism, which Ulrich Herbert quite rightly identified as the top priority (“Fixpunkt”) of the system,45 did not exclude utilitarian considerations that accorded with the disposition of the perpetrators. It was such a rationalization that, for example, brought about the death of French prisoners in the Mittelbau complex.
As the Third Reich neared collapse, conditions at other camps were equally horrific. Mauthausen and the network of sub-camps close by became vast zones of death – 11,000 died in April 1945 alone. At Ravensbrück, north of Berlin, conditions had been worsening during 1944, and early in 1945 a gas chamber was improvised to murder several thousand prisoners.42 Estera Frenkiel, who had previously been in the Łódź ghetto, was sent to Ravensbrück in the summer of 1944. She remembers the camp as ‘pure hell’. ‘The ghetto was a story in its own right,’ she says. ‘That was a tale of hunger. That was a battle for food, avoiding deportation. But there [in Ravensbrück] it was hell: neither day, nor night.’43
Information on Dora’s Revier personnel is often uncertain, but this is not particular to Dora. The SS doctor, the Lagerarzt, was at first a certain Heinrich Plaza, described by Jean Michel as “a tall guy, with the mug of a brute”; he was dangerous when drunk and insulted the prisoners.1 He came from Buchenwald where he was in charge of pathology and entirely incompetent. After Dora, he passed through Struthof before being appointed to Ohrdruf. He was replaced at the beginning of 1944 by Dr. Karl Kahr, who remained there until December and who will be mentioned in a later chapter.
It was customary practice to test prisoners’ skills upon their arrival or within a few weeks thereafter. There were, however, cases of quarantined individuals at Dachau and Buchenwald who were directly recruited under rather surprising conditions. Milan Filipcic,22 a Slovenian, recalls that in November 1943, Albin Sawatzski went to Dachau to select a hundred intellectual prisoners from among those being held in quarantine. They were immediately separated from the others and formed a “Dora Kommando,” which arrived in its entirety at Dora in late December after passing through Buchenwald. They were almost all assigned to the Kontrolle Scherer Kommando. The prisoners involved included a number of Slovenes as well as Czechs and Italians.
In Europe the past decade has been marked by profound political change—one of the main aspects of which was the reunification of Germany, coming about at the end of a peaceful process. Its consequences are manifold, but one of them is to situate the “places of memory”—including the concentration camps—in a new environment. These changes can be measured with regard to Dora on two levels: the practical level (free movement of persons, modified administrative trusteeship, privatizing of businesses) and the ethical level—having to do with the very meaning of the commemoration.
Auschwitz construction by
I opened the file and glanced through it. Very detailed clinical examinations, accompanied by X-rays, descriptions, and artists’ drawings, indicated from the scientific viewpoint the different aspects of these two little beings’ “twinhood.” Only the pathological report was missing. It was my job to supply it. The twins had died at the same time and were now lying beside each other on the big dissecting table. It was they who had to—or whose tiny bodies had to—resolve the secret of the reproduction of the race. To advance one step in the search to unlock the secret of multiplying the race of superior beings destined to rule was a “noble goal.” If only it were possible, in the future, to have each German mother bear as many twins as possible! The project, conceived by the demented theorists of the Third Reich, was utterly mad. And it was to Dr. Mengele, chief physician of the Auschwitz KZ, the notorious “criminal doctor,” that these experiments had been entrusted.
In April 1943 the Wehrmacht transferred the running of the camp to the SS WVHA, led by Pohl. On April 27 it once again became a concentration camp, under the command of Adolf Haas. Prisoners from various other camps were sent there to prepare the site. The plan was to make it a camp for Jews who could be exchanged or used as hostages.
THE DEATH TOLL AT DORA UNTIL MARCH 1944. Between August 1943 and March 1944 the Dora “camp” barely existed. Most of the prisoners, whether working inside the tunnel or digging out exterior access routes, were still housed in the tunnel itself. There were not yet any satellite camps. The mortality rate was high but there was no crematorium on the site, and corpses were transported to Buchenwald to be incinerated. The camp had a dreadful reputation, for good reason.
Little mention is made of them in the accounts. The best accounts were given by Max Dutillieux of three prisoners in the Rossla Kommando, whom we will encounter in the next chapter. In the Dora Tunnel, Francis Finelli, a high-ranking civil servant in the Interior Ministry, had the chance to chat in Corsican in a neighboring hall with a certain Martin Colonna. While inspecting a prison after the war, he found him again: he had “fallen again,” according to his own expression. Other French prisoners were interned in concentration camps for offenses committed in Germany. It was mainly in Dachau that Edmond Michelet ran into them when he arrived in the camp.
12. Exceptions, apart from the author’s Mittelbau monograph (Jens-Christian Wagner, Produktion des Todes: Das KZ Mittelbau-Dora (Göttingen, Stiftung Gedenkstätten Buchenwald und Mittelbau-Dora, 2001), at least initially, are Isabell Sprenger, Gross-Rosen: Ein Konzentrationslager in Schlesien, Neue Forschungen zur Schlesischen Geschichte, 6 (Köln/Weimar/Wien, 1996); Michel Fabreguet, Mauthausen: Camp de concentration national-socialiste en Autriche rattachée (1938–1945) (Paris, 1995).
107 Testimony from 8 November 1961, BArch ZStL 203 AR-Z 69/59, vol. 3, pp. 5–6. And Rees, Auschwitz, p. 92.
34 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 102.
8 Robert Jan van Pelt, The Case for Auschwitz: Evidence from the Irving Trial, Indiana University Press, 2002, pp. 155–6. Simonov’s first report on Majdanek was released by the Soviet embassy in Washington on 29 August 1944.
THE REICH FROM HITLER TO DÖNITZ. There is a great deal of confusion concerning the events at the head of the Reich, especially during the final months. It is possible, however, to present the main ones, particularly those that took place in northern Germany, as some of their aspects directly affected the fate of concentration camp prisoners.
The action against the Jews of the Warsaw ghetto, starting on 23 July, was one of the most atrocious of all the horrors of the Holocaust. ‘The turmoil and terror is appalling,’ wrote Abraham Lewin in his diary on 1 August. ‘Mothers lose their children. A weak old woman is carried onto the bus. The tragedies cannot be captured in words. The Rabbi from 17 Dzielna Street has been seized and apparently shot. Children walking in the street are seized.’14
THE BOMBING OF PEENEMÜNDE. The activity on the north of the island of Usedom, which had been going on since late 1936, could not go unnoticed by the British indefinitely. First of all, in November 1939, the British naval attaché in Oslo had been tipped off by an unknown informer, no doubt German, as to rocket testing taking place on a remote Baltic island, in all likelihood Greifswalder Oie. Subsequent rumors had come from Scandinavian countries about rockets being spotted by fishermen off Bornholm. Then more precise information was passed along by the Polish resistance movement, originating from workers employed at Peenemünde. And finally, on May 15, 1942, following a photographic reconnaissance mission of destroyers moored at Swinemünde, a reconnaissance pilot had taken several pictures of Peenemünde on his way back, revealing surprising details. All the evidence seemed to converge.
40 Yitzhak Arad, The Holocaust in the Soviet Union, University of Nebraska Press, 2009, p. 165.
21 Algernon Freeman-Mitford, 1st Baron Redesdale, Introduction, in Houston Stewart Chamberlain, Foundations of the Nineteenth Century, vol. 1, Elibron Classics, 2005, first published by F. Bruckman, Munich, 1911, pp. v–vi.
In occupied Belgium there were also those who welcomed both the racism and the anti-Semitism of the Nazis. The Rexists, for instance, a far-right Belgian political party under the leadership of Léon Degrelle, came to embrace Nazi ideology. Jacques Leroy, a committed Rexist, confirms that he was also a dedicated ‘racist’. ‘The difference’, he says, ‘between the people whom you call Übermenschen [a superior race] and the ones whom you call Untermenschen [an inferior race] is that the Übermenschen are the white race … In those days we were proud to belong to the white race.’5 As for his attitude towards the Jews, Jacques Leroy’s views can be deduced from the fact that after the war he became a Holocaust denier.
From January to May 1943 there had been three large convoys from Compiègne to Sachsenhausen (3,650 deportees at the outset) and two others to Mauthausen (2,000 deportees). Subsequently, right up until March 1944, all the convoys were sent to Buchenwald. The first convoys were made up largely of young people, who, not wanting to do their STO, had gone underground or had attempted to cross the Pyrenees to get to North Africa through Spain.
Mauthausen was at the heart of an enormous series of business concerns – some owned by the SS, others by private enterprise. The granite quarry was under the aegis of DEST – Deutsche Erd- und Steinwerke GmbH, the German Earth and Stone Company – a commercial venture run by the SS. But Mauthausen also supplied workers for outside companies involved in a variety of manufacturing businesses – from armaments to pharmaceuticals. As a consequence, scores of sub-camps were established to service these factories, and the complex rivalled Auschwitz in terms of scale and variety. Mauthausen was also similar to Auschwitz in another respect – a gas chamber was built at the camp. It was used for the first time in spring 1942 around the time that gassings began in the Little Red House at Birkenau. Like the gas chambers at Auschwitz, the one at Mauthausen, though smaller, used Zyklon B. But despite the presence of the gas chamber, Mauthausen was never a camp primarily concerned with the Final Solution, even at the height of the extermination process elsewhere. About 200,000 prisoners were sent to Mauthausen in the course of its existence. Poles made up the largest ethnic group, with approximately 40,000 Polish prisoners deported to the camp. Altogether around half of all those sent to Mauthausen died there, including an estimated 14,000 Jews.18
17 Leni Yahil, The Holocaust: The Fate of European Jewry, 1932–1945, Oxford University Press, 1991, pp. 95–7.
Franz was a committed Nazi and had worked at Buchenwald concentration camp before the war. Like a number of other guards in the death camps, he had also spent time in the T4 euthanasia programme. He had thus been working for many years in an environment, and for an organization, that preached absolute hatred of Jews and asserted that it was legitimate to kill those the state thought ‘unworthy of life’. As a result, he almost certainly thought the people he was dominating, torturing and killing were not really ‘human’ at all. But that can’t be the whole explanation for his sadistic actions, since some other SS in the same situation did not appear to take the same pleasure in inflicting the pain that Franz did. It is a reminder that members of the SS who decided to carry on working in a death camp still had a choice about how to behave – one between becoming a sadistic murderer, or merely a cold-hearted one. Kalman Taigman’s view, having observed the SS and their Ukrainian helpers closely at Treblinka, is that ‘each person has the instincts of an animal, but since we live in a normal way we don’t show it – it doesn’t come out. But there are times when a person turns into something else and what comes out of him is what was hidden [all along].’
According to Maurice Gérard,38 this “country crematorium” was located “high up on the right, a little above Block 109.” Gérard Pichot remembered it as being close by: when he had no news of his father, Léonce, who had gone to the Revier, he dreaded finding him there on a pile of corpses waiting to be burned.39
The last important general meeting of Nazi dignitaries, which has been described by numerous authors,1 took place in the bunker of the Reich Chancellery in Berlin on April 20, 1945, on Adolf Hitler’s fifty-sixth birthday. To situate the event, a break in the German front east of Berlin had occurred the day before, and the next day the Sachsenhausen camp was to be evacuated. A hundred people were at the meeting, all of them leaders, including Göring, Goebbels, Ribbentrop, Himmler, Kaltenbrunner, Bormann, Ley, and Speer as well as Dönitz, Keitel, Jodl, and many others.
During the last quarter of a century, in conversations with many of the world’s leading academic historians, I have seen the intellectual landscape shift. When I started out, opinion was largely divided between intentionalists – who pointed to Hitler’s key role in the decision-making process and who argued that he might well have intended to kill the Jews for years before the Holocaust – and functionalists – who believed that the best way of understanding what happened was to look at the complex interaction between Hitler and a multitude of outside forces. Over time, fewer and fewer serious historians took the intentionalist position and the debate shifted among the functionalists to an attempt to identify the precise moment when we can say the Holocaust was decided. I have heard many different dates suggested. Some believe that the key decision was taken in July 1941, others in October 1941, still more in December 1941 and a few even assert that it was as late as the summer of 1942. More recently the debate has moved away from the attempt to find a single point of decision and instead to identify a number of different moments when Nazi anti-Jewish policy intensified.
Medical experiments on inmates were not confined to Auschwitz. Doctors in other concentration camps also participated. Soon after the war began, doctors at Sachsenhausen exposed prisoners to mustard gas in order to measure the effect of the poison. But it was at Dachau that some of the most infamous experiments took place, supervised by Dr Sigmund Rascher. In 1942 prisoners were locked in airtight chambers and tested to see how much pressure their bodies could endure. Other prisoners were thrust into icy water to assess how long downed aircrew could survive in a freezing sea.
HANS KAMMLER. Architect, chief of the SS construction office. Born 1901. Entered Nazi Party in 1931, SS in 1933. Served in a variety of administrative posts in the food and air ministries, 1933–1940, then joined Waffen-SS. Participated in the construction of the Majdanek camp, summer 1941. Named to head SS construction office, 1942; participated in planning and construction of Auschwitz-Birkenau. In August 1943, Heinrich Himmler and Albert Speer placed Kammler in charge of moving key production facilities underground. In August 1944, Himmler gave him responsibility for the deployment of the V-1 and V-2 weapons. Died May 1945, suspected suicide.
Victor Israelyan, who had a long conversation with Jan Zwartendijk junior on 4 June 1996, published his memoirs On the Battlefields of the Cold War (Pennsylvania, 2003). I received Zwartendijk’s notes on the conversation from his brother, Rob. Professor Ilja Altman published his report The issuance of visa to war refugees by Chiune Sugihara as reflected in the documents of Russian archives as a digital publication of the Russian Research and Educational Holocaust Centre in Moscow in 2017. This research centre was established in 2012, a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Durand furthermore shows how the leaders of the French Resistance who belonged to the three convoys in January were able to be identified and kept at Buchenwald. Pineau, who was there under the false identity of Grimaux and knew too many secrets to disclose his real identity, allowed Colonel Manhès (whom he calls Manevy) a free hand. Courtaud61 says in his memoirs that he met Manhès. He preferred to remain with his companions and ended up being sent in a transport not to Dora but to the Laura Kommando, which will be discussed in chapter 11.
Durand (Pierre), La Résistance des Français à Buchenwald et à Dora (Paris: Messidor, 1991).
55. Jacques-Christian Bailly, Un lycéen à Buchenwald (Paris: Ramsay, 1979), pp. 161–62.
Though the regime was particularly brutal, Majdanek always remained small in comparison to Auschwitz. Just under 25,000 prisoners were incarcerated in Majdanek at peak capacity in the spring of 1943. And uniquely among the camps that contained gas chambers, Majdanek’s killers could murder with either bottled carbon monoxide – like the extermination chambers of the adult euthanasia scheme – or Zyklon B – like the gas chambers of Auschwitz. Why Majdanek, of all the camps, had the capacity to kill with both methods has never been determined.
6 Martin Gilbert, Auschwitz and the Allies, Pimlico, 2001, p. 127.
His narrative comprises three successive episodes: the month preceding the bombing, the bombing itself, and the aftermath of the bombing up until the return to Buchenwald. Fliecx, who suffered a great deal afterward at Dora and Bergen-Belsen, as will be clear in examining other excerpts from his memoirs, has rather good memories of his first month at Peenemünde. The prisoners were housed on the ground floor of the factory in specially reserved and carefully enclosed quarters that were clean and had new bunks and earthenware washbasins. Food was more or less adequate.41
If today, Negroes in Africa march against the guns of a police that defends apartheid—even if hundreds of them will be shot down and tens of thousands rounded up in concentration camps—their march, their fight, will sooner or later assure them of a chance for liberty and equality. The Jews of Europe could equally have marched as free men against the SS, rather than to first grovel, then wait to be rounded up for their own extermination, and finally walk themselves to the gas chambers. It was their passive waiting for the SS to knock at their door without first securing a gun to shoot down at least one SS before being shot down themselves, that was the first step in a voluntary walk into the Reich’s crematoria.
It is the presence of this testimony in the book – most of which has never been published before – that was one of the key reasons that I thought I should subtitle the work a ‘new’ history. In particular, not one word from any of the interviews conducted for my most recent project, Touched by Auschwitz – with Halina Birenbaum, Giselle Cycowicz, Max Epstein, Ida Grinspan, Hermann Höllenreiner, Tadeusz Smreczyński and Freda Wineman – has previously appeared in book form.
at Auschwitz
Mrs Ganor and the two daughters also survived the ordeal. It came as a great relief to them to be sent to Stutthof concentration camp, thirty kilometres from Danzig. In Kaunas, rape had almost become the norm. Women and girls were stripped naked, sent out into the street, and violated by countless men. Later, when these crimes were denied, photos were produced as proof. Until late 1943, Stutthof was not an extermination camp and had no gas chambers. The large-scale murder did not begin there until a year before the end of the war.
There was also one longer-term benefit for the SS in embracing the system of Kapos. Over time, the existence of Kapos allowed the SS more distance from the prisoners. It meant that instead of physically attacking inmates themselves, they could instruct the Kapos to do the beating for them. The guards could thus choose not to become covered in the sweat and blood of the prisoners as they were lashed. There were, of course, SS who remained directly involved in the physical abuse of prisoners, but the Kapo system allowed an alternative way of structuring supervision and punishment. It was a system that was to find its apotheosis at Auschwitz, where prisoners were at risk of the most appalling abuse – even murder – from the Kapos who were in charge of their individual barracks or work details.
36 Christopher Browning, The Origins of the Final Solution, Heinemann, 2004, pp. 309–10.
Until the end of March 1944 it was at the Buchenwald crematorium that the bodies regularly arriving from Dora were incinerated, which gave it its terrible reputation. As will be shown in chapter 10, a “countryside crematorium” was then set up in the camp. Dora’s ultimate crematorium, which has been conserved, was much later.
The Wannsee conference was also an opportunity for the SS to assert a pre-eminent role in the Final Solution. Heydrich, for instance, would have been pleased that Josef Bühler, on behalf of Hans Frank, appeared to support the leading role that the SS would play in this vast new operation. Bühler had been a late addition to the list of those invited, after the SS representative in the General Government had warned Himmler that Hans Frank might seek to control Jewish policy in his area.23 Heydrich and Himmler would not have wanted a repeat of the conflict between Frank and the SS at the time of the deportations of Poles into the General Government. It was also important for Heydrich and Himmler to ensure that the Foreign Office – represented at the meeting by the under-secretary Martin Luther – also accepted the leading position of the SS in the Final Solution. Heydrich and Himmler would have remembered that the Foreign Office had sought at one stage in the summer of 1940 to take a proactive role on the Madagascar plan. Thus gathering all the interested parties together at Wannsee was an obvious attempt by Heydrich to clear a way through the bureaucratic jungle ahead.
I’m sure I’ll find out more about her someday. Her visa had saved her from the Holocaust, but she had never shaken off her bewilderment at being such a rare exception. In her own way – diffident, but no less impressive for that – she wanted to share something of that perplexity with her sons.
39 Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2012, p. 295.
However, more important than any enhancements in the murder procedure was what Auschwitz had become in conceptual terms. For Auschwitz was not just the biggest murder factory ever built – where people became ashes just a few hours after arrival – it was also, by now, an efficient sorting machine for human beings. The idea was that Hungarian Jews would first be selected on arrival inside the camp at Auschwitz Birkenau, with the old, children and others who looked unfit sent straight to the gas chambers. The remaining Jews would usually be held in a ‘quarantine’ camp within Birkenau for several weeks, and then either allocated to work camps in the Auschwitz area or sent further away, often to camps near industrial concerns within the Reich. Those working in the camps near to Auschwitz would be returned to Birkenau to be murdered once they were deemed no longer useful.
It was here that the “surplus” from the “Jewish ramp” was sent, that is, those for whom there was no room in the four crematoriums. The worst kind of death awaited them. Here there were no faucets to slake the thirst of several days’ voyage, no fallacious signs to allay their misgivings, no gas chamber which they could pretend was a disinfecting room. Merely a peasant house, once painted yellow and covered with thatch, whose windows had been replaced by planks.
MY DAYS PASSED QUIETLY, WITHOUT interruption. It was rumored that Dr. Mengele had fled Auschwitz. The KZ had a new doctor, and, what was more, from now on the area was no longer to be called KZ, but “Arbeitslager,” that is, “Work Camp.” Everything was breaking up and falling to pieces.
I saw that my remarks satisfied the members of the commission, for they announced that in the future all cases requiring an autopsy would be sent here. They found this a very satisfactory arrangement. Thus I became, with this one autopsy, the coroner for the KZ in charge of all matters pertaining to forensic medicine in the Gleiwitz district.
It was in March 1944 that Kammler was put in charge of setting up the aircraft industry underground and created Sonderstab Kammler, which was established at Bischofferode at the foot of the Himmelberg. The prisoners were then brought in to get the work sites started, in utterly improvised fashion. To dig out the underground spaces of B 3, B 11, and B 12, and to build the outside infrastructures for B 13, manpower was brought from the Buchenwald camp, which, between March and June 1944, gave priority to sending the newly arrived prisoners, in particular those from the last convoys coming from France and Belgium.
4 Neufeld and Berenbaum (eds.), The Bombing of Auschwitz, p. 68. Rees, Auschwitz, p. 248.
51 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 114.
It was thus that Victor Letourneux,1 from the “20,000”s convoy—which got to Buchenwald in September 1943—arrived from Schönebeck in the Rottleberode camp. Jean Rougier2 came directly from Buchenwald on June 15, 1944. later, Stéphane Hessel would pass only briefly through Schönebeck before getting to Rottleberode on November 4, 1944. The corresponding camp3 was established to the north of the village in the Max Schuck porcelain factory. It was given the code name of Heinrich. There were 903 prisoners on December 31, 1944; their number had grown to 1,700 on the eve of the evacuation. The Revier doctor as of July 1944 was a Belgian, Dr. Fernand Maistriaux,4 from Beauraing.
8 Patrick Montague, Chełmno and the Holocaust, I. B. Tauris, 2012, p. 22.
Survivors of concentration camps. See Associations of survivors; individuals by name.
18 Jürgen Matthäus and Mark Roseman (eds.), Jewish Responses to Persecution, vol. 1: 1933–1938, AltaMira Press/US Holocaust Memorial Museum, 2010, CV press release dated 24 March 1933, in CV-Zeitung, 30 March 1933, document 1-5, p. 15.
78 Gendarmerie-Station Muggendorf Monthly Report, 26 November 1938, in Walter H. Pehle (ed.), November 1938: From Reichskristallnacht to Genocide, St Martin’s Press, 1991, p. 39. Quoted in ‘Reactions to Kristallnacht’ at www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org.
The Langenstein “Mémorial” includes a chapter entitled “Extermination Through Work and Life in the Camp,” which is an excellent synthesis of the testimonies the author brought together. Hélie de Saint-Marc’s text18 should also be mentioned, and is included as a conclusion to the book Leçons de ténèbres (Lessons of Darkness) under the title “The Place of People’s Absolute Truth.” He owes his survival at Langenstein to a Latvian miner who took him under his protection. Georges Petit19 has also recently published, in the journal Vingtième Siècle, his thoughts on his concentration camp experience, in particular at Langenstein.
The Hungarian Jews were apparently the only Jews who were sent to Dora to work. Other Jews of various nationalities arrived later in January–February 1945 due to the evacuation of Auschwitz, along with non-Jews, as we shall see in chapter 14.
1. Bailly, Un lycéen à Buchenwald, pp. 188–89.
Experiments in different methods of killing were not only conducted in the occupied Soviet Union. At Auschwitz, in Upper Silesia, the SS devised another way of murdering prisoners. In the early autumn of 1941, Karl Fritzsch, deputy to the commandant, Rudolf Höss, tried killing sick prisoners and Soviet POWs with a powerful cyanide-based chemical in crystallized form that was used to destroy insects. The crystals, stored in sealed tins, turned into poisonous gas once exposed to the air. The chemical was called Zyklon Blausäure – or Zyklon B for short.
16 Auschwitz was the only place where more Jews were murdered, but unlike Treblinka Auschwitz was never solely a death camp.
12 Christopher Browning, The Origins of the Final Solution, Heinemann, 2004, pp. 36–7. David Cesarani, Final Solution: The Fate of the Jews 1933–49, Macmillan, 2016, p. 257.
6 Lieven Saerens, ‘Antwerp’s Attitude toward the Jews from 1918 to 1940’, in Dan Michman (ed.), Belgium and the Holocaust, Yad Vashem, 1998, pp. 159–94, here pp. 192–3.
63 Zuccotti, Italians and the Holocaust, pp. 185–6.
With only a few exceptions, the survivors never contacted their rescuers. The question is why. It wouldn’t have taken so much effort to send a note, some sign of life, to the people who had saved them in their hour of need. You might even feel that Zwartendijk, De Jong, De Voogd, and Romer had a moral right to information. In the absence of any news, they were burdened with questions and guilt feelings for many years. Not all of them were equally troubled, but Zwartendijk, De Jong, De Voogd, and Romer often wondered when and how they had fallen short. I haven’t mentioned De Decker here because he died in 1948. Nor do I include Sugihara, because before his death in 1986, he was the only rescuer to learn the outcome of the investigation by the Institute for Holocaust Research and the Simon Wiesenthal Center. The other four received no news from the survivors.
His replacement at Oberammergau, an SS officer named Kummer, allowed himself to be persuaded of the risk of an air raid on the barracks and accepted that the specialists be dispersed, still under guard, in the neighboring districts. Wernher von Braun first established himself more to the north, in Weilheim, then went to a hospital in Sonthofen south of Kempten to have his arm attended to by a surgeon. He remained there until April 25, when an ambulance sent by Dornberger came to get him, taking him to a hotel at Oberjoch near the Austrian border. A small group met there, including Dornberger and Magnus von Braun, Wernher’s younger brother. It was on May 2, after the radio had announced Hitler’s death, that Magnus von Braun, who spoke English, went down into the valley by bicycle to make contact with the American authorities.5 He met an antitank company and was taken to explain himself to Reutte, in the neighboring Tyrol area. He obtained safe-conducts for seven people: his brother Wernher and himself, Dornberger and his assistant Axster, Lindenberg (a combustion chamber specialist), Bernhard Tessmann, and Dieter Huzel. The two latter men, after having hidden the V2 archives at Dörnten, as seen in chapter 16, reconnected with their colleagues by their own means.
But quarantine took on another dimension in 1943–44, once there was a sustained demand for putting together convoys of prisoners for external Kommandos—and especially for Dora. The time of the quarantine was thus put to use for choosing between those who were to be admitted into the Buchenwald camp and those who were to be put “in transport.” Immediately after the end of the quarantine period, the latter were sent on their way to their destination.
In the final months of 1944 the SS transferred numerous prisoners from Auschwitz to more centrally located camps, examples of which—concerning non-Jews—were given in chapter 14. At the same time Jews, especially women, arrived at Bergen-Belsen. Anne Frank was part of a transport in December. She died in March 1945. The largest influx, however, took place in January and February 1945, due to the evacuation of Auschwitz and the other eastern camps. Simone Jacob (Simone Weil)16 arrived at Bergen-Belsen at that time, after a very short stopover in Dora.
On the basis of muddled passages in Speer’s last book,15 it would seem that establishing a factory at Buchenwald next to a large existing camp (rather than putting a Kommando next to an existing factory) raised serious problems. The plan was to create a Gustloff factory for the manufacture of rifles, although the Gustloff Werke established in Weimar already employed prisoners from a Buchenwald Kommando. The factory was finally set up. As will be shown, Dora’s beginnings were of an entirely different nature: right from the beginning the point was to set up a factory and a camp simultaneously, which would together form a whole.
A special kommando was given the job of inspecting the luggage left in the gas chamber lobbies and recouping all medicines before the clothes and shoes were shipped away. These medicines were then turned over to me to be arranged and classified according to their type and purpose. It was no easy job, for people were brought to Auschwitz from all over Europe, and the medicines they brought with them were naturally labeled in the language of the country of origin. So I found labels written in Greek, Polish, Czech and Dutch, all of which I had to decipher. I might mention in passing that the majority of medicines found on those who had been brought to the KZ belonged to one of several kinds of sedatives. Sedatives to quiet the nerves of Europe’s persecuted Jews.
66 Hoess, Commandant of Auschwitz, p. 78.
Thus in late August 1943 the Dora camp was set up in Thuringia at the same time that the Dora “Tunnel” was re-built for the construction of V2s. Large underground or railway work sites were opened in the spring of 1944 in the surrounding area at the same time as the annex camps. Both in the case of the secret weapons—the V2 as well as the Vi—and in the case of the aeronautics industry, we were caught up in a power struggle between the SS and the civil and military technocrats: in other words, between Arms Minister Albert Speer and his engineers, Wehrmacht artillery specialists, and the team of rocket specialists behind Wernher von Braun. In making use of the concentration camp labor force, the SS sought—and to some extent managed—to take control of the Reich’s war industry.
Wirth and his construction team had clearly drawn on their experience in the adult euthanasia scheme in the construction of the camp. Like the patients in the euthanasia centres, the Jews to be murdered at Bełżec were told that they were to take a shower. The only difference was that the gas that came through tubes to kill them was not from bottled carbon monoxide, but from a diesel tank engine placed outside the fake shower blocks.
There were few Belgians at Dora during the terrible early months. As we saw in chapter 6, there were 15 deaths among them compared to 708 among the French prisoners. No convoys from Belgium arrived before May 8, 1944. The first Belgians who arrived at Dora were already at Buchenwald or were in the convoys from France, or had gone through prisons in Germany.
In May 1940, just days after Höss had arrived at Auschwitz, Himmler outlined his vision for the whole occupied east. This memo, which Himmler intended to submit to Hitler, was entitled – rather modestly given the sweeping nature of the proposals – ‘Some Thoughts on the Treatment of the Alien Population in the East’.69 A large section of the memo dealt with Himmler’s plans to conduct a search among the Polish population in order to find children that were ‘racially first class’ and who ‘came up to our requirements’. These children would then be transported to Germany and raised as German citizens. Himmler believed this policy would not just allow the Nazis access to more German ‘blood’ but deprive the Poles of the potential for a leadership class. As for the rest of the Polish children, they would receive the most basic education – taught only to count ‘up to 500’ and to write their own names. ‘I consider it unnecessary to teach reading,’ said Himmler. More important, he maintained, was that Polish children should learn that it was ‘God’s commandment to be obedient to the Germans and to be honest, hard working and well behaved’. When they grew up, these children would become part of a ‘leaderless labouring class’ that the Germans could use in ‘road building, quarries’ and ‘construction’.
As we mentioned earlier in chapter 3, all the deportation convoys that left from Compiègne between June 1943 and January 1944 went to Buchenwald, and a large proportion of the French prisoners involved were transferred from there to Dora between September 1943 and March 1944. After that the distribution changed: convoys from France and “transport” from Buchenwald both had more varied destinations.
It was too early for dinner. The Sonderkommando brought out a football. The teams lined up on the field. “SS versus SK.” On one side of the field the crematorium’s SS guards; on the other, the Sonderkommando. They put the ball into play. Sonorous laughter filled the courtyard. The spectators became excited and shouted encouragement at the players, as if this were the playing field of some peaceful town. Stupefied, I made that mental note as well. Without waiting for the end of the match, I returned to my room. After supper I swallowed two sleeping tablets of ten centigrams each and fell asleep. A badly needed sleep, for I felt my nerves stretched to the breaking point. In such cases, sleeping tablets were the best remedy.
Persecuted and tortured, physically and morally broken by five years of ghetto life, bowed by the knowledge of their accursed race’s tragic destiny, aged by forced labor, they arrived completely apathetic. Although they realized as they crossed the threshold of the crematorium that they were entering upon the last lap of their lives, there was an air of indifference about them.
There is nothing surprising about their similarity. Despite its unusual size, Dora continued to be an exterior Kommando of Buchenwald. All the prisoners at Dora had come through Buchenwald and their identity numbers were Buchenwald numbers. There were only a few weeks when the corpses from Dora were not incinerated at Buchenwald.
I carefully slide the card back into the folder of documents, not as an item of evidence, but as the final testimony of people murdered in an extermination camp – one we can no longer even identify.
A DEATH COUNT MADE IMPOSSIBLE. Given the conditions of the transport and the arrival, it is impossible to know the number of deaths that resulted from the evacuations of Auschwitz and Gross Rosen and that ended up at Dora itself or at other points in the Mittelbau complex. The fact that a convoy turned up there rather than at Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen, or at another camp was in no way premeditated, and convoy trajectories were not taken into account, contrary to the steadfast tradition of the concentration camp universe.
THE FACTORY CAMP. From November 1943 on, and for a period of several months, only the factory mattered: it had to get finished and get going. The camp was only a vast formless annex of which the essential element was the kitchen. It supplied the soup that the inhabitants of the tunnel came to eat at the door before withdrawing to the sleeping quarters and the work halls, with their dirt and their lice. When lice were discovered, a disinfection block was added to the kitchen. Because all available space was required for the factory, there was no possibility of building a crematorium for the corpses the factory “produced” with efficiency greater than that with which it produced the V2s. The months from November to March were the deadliest in Dora’s history.
43 Elissa Mailänder, Female SS Guards and Workaday Violence: The Majdanek Concentration Camp, 1942–1944, Michigan State University Press, 2015, p. 242.
43. Selection of new arrivals at Auschwitz Birkenau (Ullsteinbild / TopFoto)
The accounts of the prisoners from Wöbbelin, Sachsenhausen, and Ravensbrück mention that they met up with columns of women prisoners, but there is no consistent view of their movements. There are no accounts by French women deportees at Ravensbrück on this subject because they were transferred separately to Sweden.
6 Randolph L. Braham, The Politics of Genocide: The Holocaust in Hungary, Wayne State University Press, 1994, p. 110.
In 1943 Himmler tried to gain control of the ghetto by turning it into a concentration camp. But he faced opposition not just from Greiser but from the Wehrmacht, who saw the ghetto as a useful source of forced labour. The dispute rumbled on, with Greiser’s staff at one point demanding a huge payment for handing over the ghetto – a request which was refused.43 By May 1944 Himmler had finally lost patience with the negotiations and ordered that the ghetto should cease to exist. External events shortly made such a course of action inevitable, since the following month the Red Army began a major advance that threatened to break through towards Łódź. As a consequence, on 23 June the first of ten transports, taking in total around 7,000 people, left for the 40-mile journey to the gas vans at Chełmno – the murder facility that had been reopened for the task of murdering the Łódź Jews.
Two points characterize the National Socialist concentration camp system in the final phase of Nazi rule in the years 1943–1945. First, it was not limited to the annihilation camps “somewhere in the East” or to the well-known, seemingly isolated “large” concentration camps, such as Buchenwald, Dachau, and Neuengamme, among others. Rather, the system formed a closely knit network of main and satellite camps in the German Reich and the occupied neighboring states, a net that could not remain hidden from the civilian population. Second, forced labor became the determining factor of annihilation, be it through work methods that killed human beings or through the selection and murder of those unable to work.
During Speer’s absence the SS was successful in one endeavor, however. Kammler was placed in charge of equipping the underground sites for the aviation industry using concentration camp workers. Hitler promised to provide him with contingents of Hungarian Jews for that purpose.11 The project was independent of the one that he examined with Dorsch. In both cases they were at the time priorities for Hitler, who was very concerned about the intensity of the American bombing in late February.
Once the surviving prisoners reached their destinations their torment continued. Most were sent to camps within the Reich, including Buchenwald, Dora-Mittelbau and Mauthausen. About 20,000 former Auschwitz prisoners ended up at Bergen-Belsen, north-west of Hanover. The camp had been the holding destination for the so-called ‘exchange Jews’ in 1943, but conditions had deteriorated badly by the time the prisoners from the death marches arrived. In part that was the result of gross overcrowding. The camp expanded from 15,000 inmates at the end of 1944 to 60,000 in April 1945. ‘Bergen-Belsen cannot be described in human language,’ says Alice Lok Cahana, who was sent there from Auschwitz. Prisoners cried out ‘for “Mother! Water! Water! Mother!” You heard chanting, day and night.’ The Kapo in charge of Alice’s group of prisoners ‘went berserk’ and started whipping them ‘because she wanted to silence the dying’. During the night the Kapo kicked out at the prisoners. Once she stamped on Alice’s head, and Alice knew that ‘if I move she [the Kapo] will beat me to death.’39
The SS, by this murderous trial and error, established the exact amount of Zyklon B crystals required to murder a set number of prisoners. In the process they discovered that the gas was more effective the hotter the room, and the more people that were crammed inside. They also found out that Block 11 was far from the perfect place to conduct mass murder. The difficulty they faced, as August Kowalczyk witnessed, was ‘how to evacuate the corpses’. Other prisoners had to enter the basement, disentangle the bodies, carry them back upstairs, place them on handcarts and then push them to the other end of the main camp to be burnt in the crematorium. Not only was this a labour-intensive and time-consuming process, but it was impossible to keep the murders secret from the rest of the camp. After giving the matter some thought, the SS realized that they could short-cut the process by turning one of the corpse-storage rooms in the crematorium into a gas chamber. The prisoners could now be murdered next to the ovens that were used to burn their remains.
I gathered up the medicines and glasses left behind by the victims. Dazed, my knees still trembling with emotion, I started for home, that is, for number one crematorium, which, to quote Dr. Mengele himself, “was no sanatorium, but a place where one could live in a pretty decent way.” After having seen the pyres, I was inclined to agree with him.
It would be difficult, however, to discuss Buchenwald in a coherent manner on the basis of survivor testimonies alone, for two reasons. First of all, the experience of the majority of these witnesses was limited in time. And the camp at Buchenwald itself greatly evolved between mid-1943 and the liberation in 1945, quite often resulting in various misunderstandings. Therefore it is essential to take a closer look at Buchenwald before turning to a detailed discussion of Dora.
Such, in outline form, and reduced to a language any layman can understand, are the principal conclusions of my autopsies. The job I had been assigned was in reality monotonous, devoid of any interest whatever. The bacteriological tests were probably being conducted in the village of Risgau, situated about three kilometers from the crematoriums, in the “SS Army’s Institute of Hygiene and Bacteriology.” There, the renowned Professor Mansfeld, who held the chair of Bacteriology at Pecs Medical School, was in charge of the work.
Concentration camp prisoners, both men and women, accounted for only a small portion of the mass of people moving westward. Most of them were from what was left of the “Vistula” group of German armies, who were trying to avoid captivity in the Soviet Union. There are two accounts on this subject, one by the Czech prisoner Jiri Benès and one by the Pole Wieslaw Kielar.
From April to August 1944, Buchenwald and Neuengamme received the greatest number of deportees, ahead of Mauthausen and Dachau. Of the five convoys that arrived at Buchenwald, two in particular were used to populate the camps of Ellrich, Harzungen, and Wieda; the deportees in the other convoys were in large part transferred to Flossenbürg or into one of the increasing number of Kommandos. In all, only a small percentage of newcomers were assigned definitively to Dora itself. The first of the convoys in question left Compiègne on May 12, 1944, and arrived in Buchenwald on May 14. The corresponding matriculation numbers ranged from “50,000” to “53,000.” Among the deportees were victims of the roundup, particularly at Saint-Claude on April 9, Easter Sunday. The transfer to Wieda or Harzungen took place in early June. The other convoy is called the “77,000”s, as the matriculation numbers went from “76,000” to “78,000.” This convoy left from the Pantin train station on August 15, 1944, with deportees taken, in particular, from Fresnes prison. It arrived in Buchenwald on August 20, and the transport to Dora took place in late August or early September. Most of the prisoners involved were quickly transferred to Ellrich.
One day Dr. Mengele arrived unexpectedly and came looking for us in our room, since he guessed that we would not be in the dissecting room, now that business was slow. He announced that orders from above had been received that the Auschwitz KZ would be completely destroyed. No, in the present instance he was not referring to its inhabitants, but to the institution itself. Two of the crematoriums would be demolished, the third would serve temporarily for the cremation of the hospital’s dead. The dissecting room, and we along with it, would be transferred to number four, which would continue in operation. Numbers one and two would be destroyed at once. Number three, of course, had been completely demolished during the October revolt.
22. A photograph taken in late April 1945 shows the pile of human ashes in front of the Dora crematorium.
News about the extermination of the Jews soon reached Goebbels. In his diary, on 27 March 1942, he gave an insight into not just the extent of his own knowledge of the fate of the Jews, but the overall context in which the decision to kill them was taken. Crucially, he points to Hitler’s role as the driving force behind the genocide: ‘A rather barbaric procedure, that is not to be spelt out, is applied here, and there is not much that remains of the Jews themselves. All in all, we can say that 60% of them have to be liquidated, whereas only 40% can still be used for work … A judgement is executed upon the Jews that is indeed barbaric, but which they fully deserve. The prophecy in which the Führer said what they would receive in case of a new world war begins to become reality in the most terrible manner. One must not let sentimentality rule in these matters. If we didn’t ward off the Jews, they would destroy us. It is a life-and-death struggle between the Aryan race and the Jewish bacillus. No other government and no other regime would be able to muster the strength to resolve this question in such a wide-ranging manner. Here, too, the Führer is the steadfast champion and spokesman for a radical solution that is necessary under the circumstances and therefore seems inevitable. Thankfully, we have a whole raft of possibilities now during the war that would be blocked in times of peace. The ghettos that become free in the towns of the General Government are now being filled with the Jews deported from the Reich, and after a certain period of time the procedure is supposed to be repeated here. The Jews’ life is no bed of roses, and the fact that their representatives in England and America today organize and propagate a war against Germany has to be paid for very dearly by their representatives in Europe; that is only appropriate.’38
“Upon our arrival in Magdeburg, the SS speeded up the pace. We crossed the bridge and it was blown up half an hour later. The column continued quickly on its way along the highway toward Berlin. Then it turned off onto secondary roads. On the way, our column had grown considerably and by the time we arrived in Oranienburg-Sachsenhausen, it had swollen into a human river made up of numerous tributaries.”
They above all went after landowners, business leaders, professionals—thereby carrying out a profound social revolution. Buchenwald from September 1945 up until 1950 was one of the indispensable internment centers for these operations.
Hitler emphasized to his audience that there could never be such a thing as a ‘good’ Jew. Individual actions and achievements counted for nothing. For Hitler ‘it is beside the point whether the individual Jew is ‘decent or not’. In himself he carries those characteristics which Nature has given him, and he cannot ever rid himself of those characteristics. And to us he is harmful.’20 For Hitler, the decision to emancipate the Jews was ‘the beginning of an attack of delirium’ because ‘equality’ had been given to a ‘people’ that was ‘clearly and definitely a race apart’.21 The official policy of the National Socialist German Workers’ Party was for the German Jews to be stripped of their citizenship, but in an article in March 1921 for the Völkischer Beobachter – a newspaper bought for the Nazis with the assistance of Dietrich Eckart – Hitler went further, and suggested that Germany could also be protected by imprisoning Jews. ‘The Jewish undermining of our Volk must be prevented,’ he wrote, ‘if necessary through confining its instigators in concentration camps. Briefly, our Volk must be cleansed of all the poison at the top and the bottom.’ 22
10 Zuccotti, Italians and the Holocaust, p. 133.
58 David Cymet, History vs. Apologetics: The Holocaust, the Third Reich, and the Catholic Church, Lexington Books, 2010, p. 125.
The ‘sole’ reason that cultures decline, he argued, was the interbreeding of different races and the ‘resultant drop in the racial level’. Adopting Houston Chamberlain’s argument, Hitler maintained that because the Jews jealously guarded their own blood, since ‘The Jew almost never marries a Christian woman,’22 they were particularly dangerous. The central struggle of existence was therefore the fight between the two most racially pure peoples – the Aryans and the Jews. None of this, it is worth stating, was true. In fact the German Jews were one of the most assimilated Jewish groups in Europe.
There is another aspect of this history that the conference illustrates. The word ‘Holocaust’ leads us to think that there was one single plan to murder the Jews. But that was not how the Nazis looked at this issue at Wannsee. From their perspective, there were a number of different ‘solutions’ to their ‘Jewish problem’. There was one overall vision, that is true, one that emanated from Hitler – the desire to eliminate the Jews. But how that task was achieved could take many forms. At Wannsee, Heydrich talked first of one ‘solution’ – the removal of the Jews of Europe to the wastes of the Soviet Union where they would build roads in terrible conditions and perish eventually over a period of time. This idea was not so very far from the Madagascar plan – send the Jews away and let them wither and die over years if necessary. Then there was another sort of ‘solution’, also discussed at Wannsee, which was the more immediate problem, for the Nazis, of the enormous number of Jews in the General Government. They would potentially be murdered over a shorter timescale and in a different way – though that issue was not finally resolved at the meeting. All this was set against the background of another ‘solution’, one that already existed – the murder by shooting of the Jews in the Soviet Union. Today, all of these separate Nazi killing actions have been given the collective name ‘Holocaust’. But they were not treated as one entity at the time. They were all evolving at different speeds.
Even so, when Himmler issued a further decree on 29 January 1943 which resulted in the deportation of the Sinti and Roma to Auschwitz, specific exceptions were made – for example, for those considered ‘racially pure’, for Gypsies married to Germans who could be vouched for by the police and so on. They were still liable to sterilization, but they had – in theory at least – a chance to escape Auschwitz and the other camps. In practice, however, all these various distinctions were largely ignored during the deportation process.46
Indeed, in late 1952 the trial of communist leaders, which would be known as the Slansky trial, took place in Prague. Among the eleven sentenced to death, and hanged on December 3, was Josef Frank, who had worked at the Buchenwald Arbeitsstatistik, where he represented the Czechs, just as Jorge Semprun had represented the Spanish and Daniel Anker the French. He “acknowledged” having, in that capacity, been responsible for the death of several fellow prisoners and having cooperated with the Gestapo. Semprun is utterly convinced of his innocence on this point. In the same trial, another former communist prisoner, from Mauthausen, Artur London, was condemned to life imprisonment, after L’Aveu.
16. Bezaut, Oranienburg, Sachsenhausen, pp. 163–64.
RICHARD BAER. Commandant of Dora-Mittelbau from February 1, 1945, until the end of the war. Born 1911. Entered Nazi Party in 1931, the SS in 1932. Served in various capacities at Dachau, Oranienburg, Buchenwald, and Neuengamme, as well as on the Russian front, 1933–1942. Adjutant to Oswald Pohl, chief of the SS Business Administration Main Office, November 1942–May 1944. Commanded the Auschwitz I camp, May 1944 to February 1945. Went into hiding after the war. Captured near Hamburg, 1960; died while in custody, 1961.
When frost halted the work on the Helmetalbahn, the prisoners from the Baubrigaden were used from January 2 to February 15. Those from Osterhagen, as already mentioned, came to Woffleben every day by train. Finally, the evacuation of the Auschwitz and Gross Rosen camps having brought a flood of prisoners to Dora, seven hundred of them were transferred on April 1 to the Woffleben camp to be put to work on B 12. The results of these initiatives were practically null because of the newcomers’ physical deficiency. Generally speaking, the only effect was to precipitate their end without speeding up the work.
A political commission headed by Dr. Mengele proceeded to the spot to make the customary investigation. If the victim had been Jewish his body would have been shipped directly to the morgue and thence to the crematoriums, and that would have been the end of the matter. But since this was a Russian officer, whose name and personal data were duly inscribed in the camp records, the same procedure could not be followed. An autopsy report would be required to explain his death. Following his on-the-spot investigation, Dr. Mengele had the body taken to the crematorium, with orders that an autopsy be made. The report was to be ready by 2:30 P.M. Dr. Mengele would pick it up and check the findings by personally examining the body.
“Three months ago we were shipped away from Auschwitz to work in a factory that manufactures sulphuric acid. When we left there were 3,000 of us, but many died of various and sundry illnesses. Now only 300 of us are left, and we’re all suffering from sulphuric poisoning.”
In early 1943 work within the concentration camp complex itself still exceeded industrial activities. The most striking example is the construction of the eight-mile-long railway line linking Weimar to Buchenwald, decided on in March 1943. On June 21, the appointed date, after working day and night at a maniacal pace, the line was inaugurated by the SS elite, led by Kammler. The very next day, work had to start up again on a six-month project.17 The prisoners coming from Compiègne on September 18, 1943, arrived at the Weimar station and were subsequently transported to Buchenwald by truck.18 The January 1944 railway convoys, however, went right to Buchenwald. The transport list of arrivals at Buchenwald, which was not available until after March 1943, indicates that prisoners came from Wewelsburg in April. They carried out work in one of the SS’s major centers, south of Paderborn.
Thus fear of Dora continued unabated in the middle of May, even though the truckloads of corpses had stopped coming at the end of March. It would appear that the prisoners at Buchenwald did not know about the three “transports” of sick prisoners that left Dora for Lublin-Maïdanek and Bergen-Belsen, as Pineau, Semprun, and Le Goupil do not mention them.
At the same time the Revier was the only place in the highly fragmented concentration camp that was open. Patients arrived bringing with them information and hearsay of all sorts. The Revier was the place where rumors were disseminated, and Rassinier’s text, when examined closely, is the worst possible document on Dora, for the information it reports is more or less seriously distorted. The Revier staff members were in the best position to make contact inside the camp. The “resistance” in the camp that will be discussed later on, whether on the part of the Germans, the French, or the Czechs, was usually started by staff members from the Revier.
This camp, the original Auschwitz, was established next to the Sola river close to Auschwitz town, and was based around a collection of red-brick former Polish Army barracks. From the beginning the death rate at Auschwitz was much higher than in pre-war Dachau – more than half of the 20,000 Poles first sent to the camp were dead by the start of 1942.
The post-war accusation that Philips, like all the major German companies, had used concentration camp inmates as cheap labour in the pursuit of profit – as BMW did in Dachau, for example – was unfounded. Over the two-year existence of the SOBU group, Philips had an operating loss of one million guilders. The intentions were good and sincere, but it was naïve to try to make a deal with an utterly untrustworthy and criminal regime.
THE COMPLETION OF TUNNEL A. The task of boring tunnel A through to its southern end was, under the conditions in which it was carried out, one of the most murderous work sites of this whole period. The teams followed one upon the other in twelve-hour shifts, and the “miners” would then sleep, without washing, in the nearby dormitories, full of dust and noise. It was here that Bron-chart’s friends—who had come with him from Sachsenhausen—were transferred. At the time of the Liberation, in Bergen-Belsen, he met again with only one of them, a miner from Sallaumines, near Lens.27
On 4 January 1940, Dr Widmann conducted a gassing experiment in Brandenburg an der Havel at a prison converted into a euthanasia unit. The gassings took place in a tiled room with fake water pipes along the ceiling. The patients to be murdered were told to undress outside the room because they had to take a shower. Once the patients were locked inside the pretend shower room, Widmann personally turned on the valve to release the gas from bottles of carbon monoxide. The gas flowed through pipes into the room and the twenty or so patients were murdered. After they had died the room was ventilated and the bodies taken away to be burnt.
10 Wolfgang U. Eckart and Hana Vondra, ‘Disregard for Human Life: Hypothermia Experiments in the Dachau Concentration Camp’, in Wolfgang U. Eckart (ed.), Man, Medicine, and the State: The Human Body as an Object of Government Sponsored Medical Research in the 20th Century, Franz Steiner Verlag, 2006, pp. 157–66, here p. 163.
At the beginning of December a new SS doctor arrived, Dr. Kurzke, an Oberjunker, exceptionally humane according to all accounts. He had a positive effect right to the end. New arrivals bolstered the staff.27 A medical team with three doctors and ten nurses arrived in Dachau on January 21. The archaeologist Jean Lassus was one of the nurses, and Boris Pahor—a Slovenian from Trieste—was assigned to the Harzungen Revier.28 Among those evacuated from Auschwitz via Gross Rosen was André Chabaud, an important scientist from the Pasteur Institute who joined Ebel and Petit in the laboratory.
AFTER SEVERAL DAYS OF SILENCE, THE customary noises of the crematorium began again. The motors of the big ventilators purred once again, reawakening the furnace flames. The arrival of the Theresienstadt ghetto had been announced.
87 David Cesarani, Final Solution: The Fate of the Jews 1933–49, Macmillan, 2016, p. 214.
10. Marc Klein, “D’Auschwitz à Gross Rosen et à Buchenwald,” Témoignages strasbourgeois, 3rd ed., 1989, pp. 502–4.
From the German point of view, the situation of the Alsatians and Mosellians who were arrested at home was quite different. Though not Reichsdeutsche, they were at least Volksdeutsche. In the camps, most of them ended up being recognized as French with an F on their triangle. Similarly, natives of Luxembourg were often able to keep their identity. Natives of Lorraine, such as Joseph Béninger, François Heumann and Albert Schmitt, went through the Struthof camp before being given identity numbers at Buchenwald among the “38,000”s and sent to Dora in late December 1943.
6 José M. Sánchez, Pius XII and the Holocaust: Understanding the Controversy, Catholic University of America Press, 2002, p. 143.
I left by the iron gate of the crematorium, where the guards noted my number, then headed in the direction of F Camp, without hurrying, the better to enjoy even this short walk. I passed beside the barbed wire fences of the women’s camp, the “FKL,” where thousands upon thousands of women prisoners were walking to and fro among the flimsy shacks that passed for barracks. All the women looked alike, and all, with their shaved heads and tattered clothes, were repulsive. I thought of my wife and daughter, of their long curly hair, of their stylish clothes and tasteful manner of dressing, of the long hours they used to spend discussing these all-important, feminine problems. Three months had already passed since our separation on the unloading platform. What had become of them? Were they still alive? Together? Were they still in the women’s section of the Auschwitz KZ, or had they perhaps been sent to one of the Third Reich’s more distant camps? Three months is a long time. But three months in the KZ was longer still. Nevertheless, I had a feeling they were still at Auschwitz. But where? In this complicated labyrinth of barbed wire, which fence was theirs? Everywhere I looked I saw nothing but a vast network of barbed wire, concrete pillars, and signs forbidding entrance or exit. The KZ was nothing but barbed wire; the whole of Germany was encompassed by barbed wire, itself an enormous KZ.
65 Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, p. 25. Also see Danuta Czech, ‘The Auschwitz Prisoner Administration’, in Yisreal Gutman and Michael Berenbaum (eds.), The Anatomy of the Auschwitz Death Camp, Indiana University Press, 1998, p. 364.
By the time the murder of the Soviet commissars was under way, the adult euthanasia scheme had also spread to the concentration camps. Under action 14f13 concentration camp prisoners who had been selected as unfit to work were transported to euthanasia killing centres. At Auschwitz on the evening of 28 July 1941, around 500 sick prisoners boarded a train to take them to Dresden. The SS had told them that they were leaving the camp so that they could regain their strength elsewhere. ‘They had some hope,’ says Kazimierz Smoleń, who watched them leave. ‘Hope is the last thing that dies.’29 The sick prisoners were taken to Sonnenstein euthanasia centre and murdered by carbon monoxide poisoning. These were the first Auschwitz prisoners to die by gassing. They were chosen not because they were Jews, but because they were sick, and they died not at Auschwitz but in the heart of Germany.
In the crematoriums an object had no “value” in the ordinary sense of the term. Anyone who paid for something with gold had already paid with his life the day he entered here. But the person who gave something in exchange for gold doubly risked his neck, once when he brought the articles that were hard to come by, even on the outside, through the SS barricades and check points, and again on his return trip carrying the gold he had received in payment. For both coming in and leaving one was always searched.
By a combination of luck and sharp wits, Israel Abelesz managed to survive until the camps were liberated. But though he was no longer in the hands of the Nazis, he was still tormented by what he had experienced. ‘I don’t know how to deal with it … hardly a day passes when I’m lying in bed and I cannot sleep for one reason or another, [I] always look at those faces of the children [selected to die] and my imagination goes: what’s happened in their last minute? When they were in the gas chambers and the Zyklon B started and they couldn’t breathe any more? And they realized that we are going to get suffocated from the gas. What was in their mind?’
One may wonder about the causes of this fear. There were no doubt three main ones. The first was the pace at which the deaths occurred, even though the prisoners had just come out of quarantine at Buchenwald and therefore were not yet weakened by a long stay in the camps. The second was the high number of victims, which in fact appeared lower than the reality, however, because they did not know about the transports of sick prisoners. The third was the way the corpses looked, completely emaciated.
The news from the Simon Wiesenthal Center took ten years to arrive. The result of the investigation was that the visas issued by Zwartendijk and Sugihara had enabled at least six thousand people to escape the Holocaust. The centre’s calculations suggested that an average of 2.8 people had travelled on each visa.
All four of the new crematoria/gas-chamber complexes at Birkenau were working by the summer of 1943. Karl Bischoff, the SS officer in charge of their construction, wrote that in total the ovens could dispose of 4,416 corpses in twenty-four hours – that is to say that Auschwitz Birkenau now had the capacity to turn 1.6 million people into ashes in one year.20 This, it should be said, was a low estimate. According to eyewitness testimony, the number burnt could be as high as 8,000 bodies a day, by the simple expedient of putting more than one corpse into an oven at a time.21
This ultimate barbarity, which was widespread, indiscriminate, and total, has to be taken into account in evoking the final weeks of the German concentration camp system. Here and there the Wehrmacht or the Luftwaffe intervened to save a few prisoners who were abandoned by the SS, but the latter never ceased to inspire fear in everyone.
JOHNNY. The “Negro Johnny” as Rassinier calls him, and as he was known at the time, was already a notable in Buchenwald, where he arrived with one of the January 1944 convoys and passed himself off as a black American. He obtained a position as a doctor in the Revier, where he was quickly recognized for his incompetence and boasting—but also for his generosity. From there he went to the Dora Revier, where Rassinier met up with him.11 Then he became a nurse at the Rottleberode Revier, where Gandar was in charge of his initiatives. He was finally liberated in Mecklenburg after having left the column (in the course of the evacuation of Ravensbrück, which will be dealt with in chapter 21) in the company of the interpreter Georges Schmidt.
Protective custody did not replace the existing system of justice in Germany but operated in parallel to it, as Hermann Göring explained at his trial in Nuremberg in 1946: ‘You must differentiate between the two categories; those who had committed some act of treason against the new state or those who might be proved to have committed such an act, were naturally turned over to the courts. The others, however, of whom one might expect such acts, but who had not yet committed them, were taken into protective custody, and these were the people who were taken to concentration camps.’43 It was an idea that went against all rules of natural justice. But it was consistent with the principles that Hitler had expressed in Mein Kampf. People should be judged for who they were, just as much as for what they did. It was all part of the same worldview that said that a Jew could never become a Christian by being baptized, because inherently that individual remained a Jew.
As we have seen, Hitler despised the disabled. But, while the Nazis had introduced compulsory sterilization, they had so far refrained from authorizing the killing of the disabled – a policy known euphemistically as ‘euthanasia’. That all changed just before the war began, when Philipp Bouhler, head of the Führer’s Chancellery, brought to Hitler’s attention a letter written by the father of a severely disabled child. The father, a believer in ‘euthanasia’, asked Hitler for permission for his child, who was a few months old, to be killed.
In this context, it is a common misconception that gas chambers emerged as the preferred killing method of the Holocaust simply because of the desire of the Nazis to kill Jews in large numbers. That wasn’t the case. During the infamous murders at Babi Yar outside Kiev in September 1941, for example, a combination of soldiers from SS police battalions, Einsatzgruppen and local collaborators murdered nearly 34,000 Jews in just two days by shooting them. This was killing on a scale that no death camp ever matched over a similar period. What gas chambers offered was not a way of killing more people in a single day than shooting, but a method of making the killing easier – for the killers.
Other prisoners observed that the Jehovah’s Witnesses seemed able to manage the suffering they endured in the camps better than many others. Bruno Bettelheim, the art historian and later psychologist, was imprisoned first in Dachau and then in Buchenwald just before the outbreak of the Second World War, and while he felt that the Jehovah’s Witnesses would – according to psychiatric theory – ‘be considered extremely neurotic and even delirious and therefore vulnerable to psychiatric disintegration in time of crisis’, that was not what he saw in the camps. ‘Not only did they display exceptional moral behavior,’ he wrote after the war, ‘they seemed protected against the influence of the camp environment that rapidly destroyed persons that our psychiatrist friends, and even I, would have judged well integrated.’34 That was certainly the case with Else Abt in Auschwitz. ‘I wasn’t scared,’ she said, ‘because I thought my creator would help me. We believed that God would be able to help us in every difficult situation.’35
There really was a library—run by Emile, an Austrian communist—though it was remarkably second-rate. Once, out of curiosity, the author borrowed a treatise on geopolitics by Hausenhofer, a classic of the Nazi period. Garnier22 read a work that was, interestingly enough, highly critical of the USSR and its work camps. Eckert23 took out two books, including a Maigret detective story in French, which was, incidentally, confiscated by an SS man. It certainly did not encourage cultural activity in the camp, which no one cared about anyway. The Puff—that is, the Bordell—operated, as in Buchenwald, only for a minority. The euphemism used for this gathering of interested individuals was Sonderbau, the “special building.” The rest of the camp had nothing to do with it.
The second remark has to do with the importance of the “camp associations” whose membership has very generally remained united. What also must be pointed out is the existence, alongside the camp associations, of a certain number of “Kommando associations” that have remained very active—such as those of Neu Stassfurt and Langenstein. This was pointed out in chapter 20. With regard to Dora, two arrangements were ultimately arrived at. According to one, because Dora was for a long time a Kommando of Buchenwald, an association for Buchenwald-Dora had to be set up, without discrimination. According to the other, the life of the prisoners at Dora had been dissociated to such an extent from that of the prisoners at Buchenwald that a separate association was necessary. Many of the prisoners from Dora chose to join both associations. Most of them had been members of the first convoys. Those who had spent time at Ellrich alone on the other hand generally lost interest in Buchenwald.
Today, however, I noticed that he appeared tired. He had just come from the Jewish unloading platform, where he had stood for hours in a biting rain, selecting the inhabitants of the Riga ghetto. As usual, though, “selection” was no longer a very applicable term, for everyone had been sent to the left. Both crematoriums still in operation were full, as was the immense pyre ditch. To cope with this new influx the ranks of the new Sonderkommando had been increased to 460 men.
It was no easy job, but in the crematoriums there was no such word as “impossible” when an order was given. The carpenters had salvaged the necessary wood from among the construction materials scattered about the crematorium grounds. The springs had come from the easy chairs that certain deportees had brought with them to make the journey more comfortable for their ailing parents. There were hundreds of these abandoned chairs in the crematorium courtyard and we used to sit in them after work to rest awhile and catch a few breaths of fresh air.
Hackett (David A.), ed., The Buchenwald Report, translated, edited, and with an introduction by David A. Hackett (Boulder: Westview Press, 1995).
A new SS camp commander, Kleemann, also arrived from Auschwitz along with a new Lagerältester, Bruno Brodniewicz, former LÄ at Auschwitz I, who would supervise the evacuation. Abel58 felt it important to pay homage to a noncommissioned SS officer at Woffleben, Sepp Zwerger, who was the B 12 Arbeitseinsatzführer. In his office Abel was able to listen to the news broadcasts from Luxembourg, freed by the Americans. He adds: “In March 1945, Zwerger deserted with other Austrians by stealing an armed vehicle and took refuge in the mountains of his country. I went and visited him in 1950 to thank him for everything he had done for us as far as he was able.”
For the thousands of Jews sent to concentration camps after Kristallnacht the experience was predictably traumatic. One Jewish man recorded how he witnessed the commandant of Sachsenhausen take off his gloves and repeatedly punch a prisoner, calling him a ‘dirty Jewish pig’. He was also forced to watch as a prisoner who had tried to escape was punished: ‘The man in question was strapped to a Bock [whipping block] and beaten with a heavy bull whip by two SA men, who had volunteered specially for this … The victim had to loudly count every blow up to 25 himself until he fell silent because he lost consciousness, but even then the animals did not stop their mistreatment. The Stubenälteste [room elder] reported that if the victim recovered even slightly, the second twenty five would be administered.’81
In May 1942, when the first large transports of Jews arrived to be gassed, the commandant of Sobibór was a thirty-four-year-old veteran of the T4 euthanasia action called Franz Stangl. Before taking charge at Sobibór he had visited Bełżec and been struck by the ‘smell – oh God, the smell. It was everywhere.’ He saw pits with ‘thousands of corpses’ in them, and learnt first hand the practical problems of managing a death camp. He was told that ‘one of the pits had overflowed. They had put too many corpses in it and putrefaction had progressed too fast, so that the liquid underneath had pushed the bodies on top, up and over, and the corpses had rolled down the hill.’58
38 Robert Jan van Pelt, The Case for Auschwitz: Evidence from the Irving Trial, Indiana University Press, 2002, p. 80.
Hodges’s troops also crossed the Weser, farther south, on April 6, took Osterode and Nordhausen on the 11th, and joined up again with Simpson’s troops in the Magdeburg region on April 13. By then the German Eleventh Army was trapped in the Harz Mountains. The Germans gradually gave ground until the last troops surrendered in Blankenburg on April 20. This double offensive brought on what was virtually a total evacuation of the Dora-Mittelbau complex between April 4 and April 11 along with the other Kommandos of the region, particularly Gandersheim, Helmstedt, Langenstein, and Neu Stassfurt. Farther to the south, Patton’s troops, which had reached Ohrdruf by April 5, liberated Buchenwald on the 1 ith and crossed the Saale on the 12th. The offensive continued until Halle and Leipzig were taken on April 19, followed by Chemnitz and Dessau.
3. The Soviets began their offensive in the direction of Berlin on April 16 by crossing the Oder, and by April 25 their troops had surrounded it. The Sachsenhausen camp together with the Heinkel Kommando from Oranienburg were evacuated toward Schwerin on April 21.
We removed the still-living body from the corpses pressing against it. I gathered the tiny adolescent body into my arms and carried it back into the room adjoining the gas chamber, where normally the gas kommando men change clothes for work. I laid the body on a bench. A frail young girl, almost a child, she could have been no more than fifteen. I took out my syringe and, taking her arm—she had not yet recovered consciousness and was breathing with difficulty—I administered three intravenous injections. My companions covered her body which was as cold as ice with a heavy overcoat. One ran to the kitchen to fetch some tea and warm broth. Everybody wanted to help, as if she were his own child.
15 Świebocki, Auschwitz, vol. 4, pp. 232–3.
After three months at Birkenau he saw a new and terrifying sight. Just outside his hut the Germans assembled a measuring bar. Those who reached the required height would be sent to one group, those who were under that height to another. Israel just ‘couldn’t reach it’ so he was put with the group who had failed the test. They were predominantly children between the ages of twelve and sixteen who had survived the initial selection at the ramp because, as Israel had witnessed, ‘there was always a few borderline cases. I mean, both through the upper age and the lower age.’
Her surviving grandfather, Isaac Lewin, published his memoirs in 1994, under the title of Remember the Days of Old: historical essays. Her father, Nathan Lewin, described the flight of the Lewin and Sternheim families at length in a speech he gave in Potomac, Maryland on 1 May 2011, entitled ‘Where were you 70 years ago?’. The entire speech can be found online: Address by Nathan Lewin, Yom Ha-Shoah Commemoration – 2011, Bnai Tzedek Congregation, Potomac, Maryland.
In July 1941 several hundred Soviet commissars were sent to Auschwitz. Kazimierz Albin, a Polish inmate of the camp, remembers that ‘they wore uniforms, but the uniforms were not [ordinary] soldiers’ uniforms but officers’ uniforms, very much in tatters. They were unshaven, and extremely emaciated. They impressed me as people who had been in very difficult conditions. And they didn’t look like simple soldiers, they looked like intelligent people.’25 The commissars laboured in a gravel pit near the main gate. Here they were literally worked to death. ‘They were beaten all the time,’ says Kazimierz Smoleń, another Polish prisoner. ‘You could hear those yells all the time. The SS men were yelling, the Kapos were yelling and the people who were being beaten yelled as well.’26 The commissars were forced to work in the gravel pits for hours on end without respite. If they slackened the pace they were severely beaten or even shot. ‘It was just a few days,’ says Kazimierz Smoleń, ‘and then they ceased to exist. It was the torture and murder of hundreds of people. It was a cruel death they died. It’s like in a horror movie, but such a movie will never be shown.’
JEAN-PAUL RENARD. Jean-Paul Renard, born in 1902, was the parish priest of Miraumont in the Somme when he was arrested by the Gestapo on November 11, 1942. For a long time he continued to go by his Resistance name, Jean-Pol. He was interned for a long time at Fresnes, then in Compiègne, and finally deported to Buchenwald by the first train in January 1944. He was transferred to Dora in early February. He stayed in the tunnel dormitories until May 1944.
concentration camps within German territory
Finally, it should of course always be remembered that Jews were deported by the Nazis to many other camps and destinations, and not just Auschwitz.
For many months the prisoners’ first sight of the tunnel was an even greater shock than their arrival in Buchenwald had been several weeks earlier. The narratives frequently make reference to a descent into hell—and these are not literary reminiscences.
The last building put up in the Ellrich camp was the crematorium, built on the hill (thus at Walkenried), which would only be used in March 1945.
The first testimony is that of Joseph Jourdren,2 who left Buchenwald on March 17, 1944, along with several other French and a number of Polish prisoners and who ended up as the only Frenchman in an uncomfortable camp situated, it would appear, at Niedersachswerfen. He was put to work digging trenches under the supervision of Greens and guarded by soldiers of the Luftwaffe. On April 3 these prisoners were transferred into the new Harzungen camp. “It’s Byzantium!” exclaimed Jourdren. But on April 10 they were again transferred and arrived at the Woffleben farm. There Jourdren met René Gilbert and Roland Coty, who was at the time the camp commander’s Friseur. On May 13, 1944, he was once again transferred—this time to Ellrich.
It is known month by month the number of prisoners from Dora incinerated at Buchenwald. It is also known that one thousand prisoners were shipped off from Dora in transports for each of the months of January, February, and March 1944. On the other hand, the total figures are available of all those present in Dora at the beginning of each month from October 1943 to April 1944. It is possible to derive, from this information, the number of prisoners who arrived in Dora between the end of August 1943 and the beginning of April 1944.
2 Nikolaus Wachsmann, KL: A History of the Nazi Concentration Camps, Little, Brown, 2015, p. 90.
As the SS at Auschwitz held these discussions, 750 miles away to the east the Germans were fighting arguably the most important series of battles of the whole war. These events on the battlefield – plus a dramatic decision by one of Hitler’s allies – were the background against which Nazi policy towards the Jews would harden still further.
58 Peter Longerich, Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews, Oxford University Press, 2012, p. 382.
To begin with, the killing appeared to progress efficiently for the SS, with about 5,000 to 7,000 Jews murdered each day. But around the middle of August the systems at the killing factory at Treblinka started to fall apart. Part of the reason was an increase in the number of Jews sent to the camp – arrivals almost doubled to over 10,000 a day. This meant that the SS and their helpers could not adequately clean up the camp between transports in order to preserve the fiction that this was merely a transit camp. Once this task was not accomplished on schedule, the consequences for the rest of the murder process were immediate. The SS had to order arriving trains to wait at Treblinka station before the carriages were shunted up the railway spur into the camp. This only exacerbated the collapse of the deception, because it meant that large numbers of Jews died within the freight wagons. Cleaning the wagons of corpses took much longer than escorting the Jews to the gas chambers, adding yet more delays to the working of the camp.
24 Danuta Czech, Auschwitz Chronicle 1939–1945: From the Archives of the Auschwitz Memorial and the German Federal Archives, I. B. Tauris, 1990, p. 783, report of Józef Cyrankiewicz and Stanislaw Klodiński, 17 January 1945.
14 Hans Mommsen, ‘The Realization of the Unthinkable: “The Final Solution of the Jewish Question” in the Third Reich’, in Michael R. Marrus (ed.), The Nazi Holocaust, vol. 3: The ‘Final Solution’: The Implementation of Mass Murder, Meckler, 1989, pp. 224–53, here p. 223.
The most important communist leader from Buchenwald was Walter Bartel, who was one of the three clandestine leaders from October 1939 until the liberation of the camp. In 1946 he was the secretary and the spokesman for relations with the press of Wilhelm Pieck, president of the SED, and subsequently president of the GDR.
POLITICAL LIFE. At the time there was a genuine political life at Buchenwald. The Reds who administered the camp were committed German communists, with an efficient clandestine leadership. Close, well-organized contact was maintained among Czech, Polish, and Dutch communists in the camp. The situation was not as clear-cut among French communists until the arrival of Marcel Paul in May 1944. The German communists also had relationships with other German Reds identified as social democrats or Catholics. The convoys from Compiègne, starting at the end of 1943, brought noncommunist parliamentary representatives and trade union activists who had friends among the French prisoners.
This ‘problem’ was about to be solved by the SS at Auschwitz, because a new camp was under construction a mile and a half away from Auschwitz main camp, at a village the Poles called Brzezinka and the Germans Birkenau. In September 1941 Himmler had ordered the creation of a camp at Birkenau capable of holding 100,000 prisoners. Birkenau had originally been intended for Soviet prisoners of war, but at the end of October 1941 Hitler had decided that the Soviet POWs should be used elsewhere in the Reich as forced labour. As a consequence Himmler now said that Birkenau could be a place to send Jews. Subsequently, on 27 February 1942,49 the commandant of the camp, Rudolf Höss, met with other SS officials and resolved to move the location of the proposed new crematorium from the cramped surroundings of the main camp to the wide spaces of the new Auschwitz Birkenau.
The other document is the list of the dead from the University of Strasbourg shown in Témoignages strasbourgeois.9 Sixteen people died in France, either shot or killed under other circumstances. Eighteen died in Auschwitz, mainly Jews. Thirty-four died during deportation outside of Auschwitz, including twenty-five in identified camps: fourteen at Dora and eleven at all the other camps combined.
The identity number was not the only element of identification used in the camps. There was also the color of the triangle sewn onto the jacket, at least as far as the Germans were concerned, which of course also included Austrians, Sudetens, and so on. Green triangles designated criminals, some of them serving sentences, others considered to be so many professional delinquents (along the lines of those shipped off to prison colonies in former times). Black triangles designated asocial types—a vague category. On the eve of the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin, in order to clean up the city, there was a roundup of beggars, bums, pimps, and so on, who were then interned in Sachsenhausen and made to wear a black triangle; most of them died shortly thereafter.10 Repeated absenteeism from work was all that was required to fall into this category. Red triangles were for political prisoners, a portion of whom were well-identified activists: communists, social democrats, Austrian monarchists, etc. Many others were there for having at some time or other expressed opinions hostile to the regime. At Dora, former soldiers from the French Foreign Legion could also be found.
A certain number of Greens, reduced to very subordinate positions at Buchenwald or even sent to the quarry, thus had the chance to vent their frustration—and did not deprive themselves. Their deep-seated xenophobia could then be played out on the Russians, the French, and the Italians without any holding back. Many of the Greens who wore armbands were somber brutes, shamelessly striking average prisoners in the Kommandos working on excavation, in the “stones,” machine transport, or frame building. Through their physical abuse, but no doubt just as much from their demented overseeing of the work, they were responsible for working many prisoners to death.
Several options for associating a factory with a camp were thus possible. The simplest, which seems to have been adopted in late 1942 for the prisoners of Sachsenhausen, was to establish a camp in the compound of an existing factory: the Heinkel Kommando was thus set up in a building of the Heinkel aircraft factory in Germendorf, near Oranienburg. It was a very large Kommando, in 1944 comprising as many as 7,000 or 8,000 prisoners, 1,000 of whom were French. Another option was to set up a camp next to a factory, as was the case with the large Falkensee camp set up in 1943 to the west of Berlin, next to the DEMAG factory, for building railway material and Tiger tanks. There too, prisoners from Sachsenhausen were used. The fact that this camp was close to the WVHA no doubt fostered these early arrangements in liaison with Speer’s Armaments Ministry. There was even a “Speer” Kommando near the camp, devoted to the recuperation of nonferrous metals from old electric cables.
I know that last sentence will provoke debate. Indeed, I have taken part myself in many lively discussions about whether or not it is possible to point to some kind of ‘singularity’ about the Holocaust or whether it has to be considered as just one ghastly atrocity among many in history. Ultimately, though, I agree with the late Professor David Cesarani who, in conversation with me a few years ago, put the claim for the special nature of the Holocaust eloquently: ‘Never before in history, I think, had a leader decided that within a conceivable time frame an ethnic religious group would be physically destroyed, and that equipment would be devised and created to achieve that. That was unprecedented.’1
Immediately after the liberation of Eindhoven, the Philips directors set up an investigating commission to purge the company of employees who, in the words of its mission statement, ‘had acted as traitors to their country or had emphatically collaborated with the occupying regime’. This commission did its job thoroughly, looking into almost 1,900 complaints and accusations, interviewing managers and co-workers, demanding written statements, and sifting through contracts and files for evidence. The investigation went on until 31 December 1946, but by late 1944, the commission already had so much work it had to form sub-commissions. Jan Zwartendijk became the secretary of one of those sub-commissions.
THE SECOND IMAGE: THE MASS GRAVE AT NORDHAUSEN. The second image resulted from the grisly discoveries made one after another that took the American forces completely by surprise at the time of their offensive toward the Elbe in April 1945. The first of these discoveries, on April 5, was Ohrdruf, where a Buchenwald Kommando, the sinister S III, had been ordered to dig out an underground command post for Hitler.
Two accounts seek to give a better image of the Poles at Dora, relying on limited, but real, examples. The first is from J. B. de Korwin-Krokowski5 on the one hand, an officer who managed to leave Poland in 1939, fought in France in 1940, and was arrested as a Resistance fighter in December 1943. The second is from Tadek Patzer, arrested in Poland in 1941 and transferred from Auschwitz to Dora in 1943. Both of them, who were quite familiar with camp life, corresponded after the war with Langbein, who refers several times to their accounts.
5. Oranienburg-Sachsenhausen Former Prisoners’ Association, Sachso, chapter 4.
Many people – especially those whom Chamberlain and de Gobineau said were ‘superior’ – were attracted by this racial theory. The idea that it was possible to assess the worth of an individual just by their physical appearance proved to be a seductive one. In the popular German novel Helmut Harringa (1910) a judge cannot accept that Harringa could be guilty, simply because he looks so pure.24 It’s a lesson that Heinrich Himmler, Reichsführer SS, seems to have taken to heart. On a visit to an SS unit in 1938, a soldier ‘caught’ his eye because of his ‘appearance’. Merely because of his looks the man was judged by Himmler to be a ‘capable, good-blooded German’. After investigating the soldier’s background, Himmler called for him to be promoted.25
“Buchenwald Mahnung und Verpflichtung” (ed. Bartel)
This text is interesting for a number of reasons. It shows that von Braun was making frequent visits to Mittelwerk, that his visits gave him an opportunity to talk about various topics, including the prisoners, and that he was quite capable of conducting procedures within the concentration camp system, even with the camp commander at Buchenwald.
32. Cf. Schley, Nachbar Buchenwald; Steinbacher, Dachau; Wagner, Produktion des Todes.
The latter stayed at Compiègne camp for varying lengths of time, but it usually served only as a transit camp. The internees came from all the German prisons of France and were grouped together there while awaiting the next convoy leaving from the Compiègne train station for one of the large concentration camps in Germany. Jews were deported from another camp, located in Drancy, northeast of Paris. The prisoners were not all deported from Compiègne to the major camps. Some were sent to German prisons after passing through special camps such as Hinzert, near Trier, or Neuenbremme, south of Saarbrücken. This latter group of deportees generally belonged to the category “NN,” i.e., they were the subject of a decree of December 7, 1941, concerning some of the Resistance fighters arrested in the occupied countries in the West. No one was to know what happened to them, and they were unable to write about their news. NN stood for Nacht und Nebel (“night and fog”). Contrary to what Alain Resnais’s film suggests, this regime did not concern all camp prisoners.
Those who had attended the Wannsee conference, held just ten days before Hitler’s speech, would thus have been well aware of the importance of their work – they were playing a part in confronting ‘the most evil enemy of the world’. Not that the Wannsee conference resulted in a sudden outburst of activity far away from the serenity of the villa at Am Grossen Wannsee. While the gas vans continued to operate at Chełmno, and the first fixed gas chambers built to kill Jews remained under construction at Bełżec, at Auschwitz there was no action taken in January to construct new killing facilities. The crematorium in the main camp, which had been the location for experimental killings in the autumn, carried on functioning as an improvised gas chamber.
31. Dr Irmfried Eberl, director of the Brandenburg killing centre and subsequently commandant of Treblinka death camp. He presided over the most intense period of killing ever seen at an Operation Reinhard camp.
Among the prisoners from the Soviet Union, Poland, and France there were no Jews. In fact, in the beginning there were no Jewish inmates in Mittelbau-Dora. But that changed at the end of May 1944, when one thousand Hungarian Jews arrived in Dora, many children and teenagers among them.37 Most of them were immediately sent on to the “Buna-Lager” Ellrich-Juliushütte, where many suffered painful deaths because of the murderous working conditions. Only at the end of September did a second transport with Jewish prisoners arrive at Dora. These were three hundred Hungarian Jews who, as skilled workers, had to toil in V-1 production for the Volkswagen plant in Schönbeck on the Elbe, in France (camp Tiercelet), and on the Moselle (camp Rebstock). In Dora they were assigned as a forced-labor group to V-1 production.
THE DORA-MITTELBAU PRISONERS IN THE BERGEN-BELSEN BARRACKS. When prisoners in the convoys from Dora-Mittelbau (except some of those from Woffleben) arrived at Bergen-Belsen on April 9 and 10, as explained earlier, they were not taken to the concentration camp by the SS but rather to the barracks. In all likelihood when the train halted in Hamburg, those in charge of the convoy were given instructions to go there with their prisoners. Perhaps Kleemann, who went with his convoy from Woffleben to Brunsbüttel, did not receive these instructions in time.
Neutitschein looked like a German town, judging by a postcard from 1932 that Erni always carried in her purse, and which her daughter gave me. Stadtplatz mit Rathaus, it says, main square with city hall. Arcades, town houses in a classical style, Renaissance buildings. The tower of the city hall, with the silhouette of a Baroque church tower barely visible. All the towns at the foot of the Carpathians and in the former duchies of Teschen and Auschwitz looked German, with a strong Jewish influence. The postcard shows the stalls on market day and the vendors – Jewish, no doubt. Neutitschein’s Jewish community went as far back as the fourteenth century; by the sixteenth century, there were forty-six houses in the Jewish ghetto. In 1848 the Jews there were granted full civil rights, in 1875 they established a cemetery, and in 1908 they opened a synagogue.
We left the camp and skirted the Jewish unloading ramp for about 300 yards. A large armored gate in the barbed wire opened behind the guard. We went in: before us lay a spacious courtyard, covered with green grass. The gravel paths and the shade of the pine trees would have made the place quite pleasant had there not been, at the end of the courtyard, an enormous red brick building and a chimney spitting flame. We were in one of the crematoriums. We stayed in the car. An SS ran up and saluted Dr. Mengele. Then we got out, crossed the courtyard and went through a large door into the crematorium.
Because of its proximity to such large urban centers as Berlin, Hamburg, and Leipzig, the Harz Mountains were, before 1939, a resort area, and the presence of numerous hotels and villas facilitated setting up offices and housing for the management transferred from Peenemünde in 1943. The Harz climate is harsh, but the towns and villages of the southern part are relatively protected; the winds were less severe at Dora than at Buchenwald, which was built on the Ettersberg heights, facing north.
On August 26, in the course of a meeting in Speer’s office between Dornberger, Kammler, Saur, and Degenkolb, the Kohnstein site was decided upon. The site had been located in mid-July (that is, before the bombing) by one of Degenkolb’s collaborators, who had been looking for a suitable underground setup. The site had been dug out by the WIFO company for its own purposes, as will be seen shortly. The company endeavored to hold on to the site but was soon obliged to relinquish it, in spite of Göring’s intervention.54 On August 28, Kammler had the first prisoners sent from Buchenwald to commence work on the site.
Deportations of Jews to Auschwitz
The SS did what they could to keep the new crematoria/gas-chamber buildings at Birkenau separate from the rest of the camp. The buildings were fenced off and the Sonderkommandos lived on site. Paradoxically, the Sonderkommandos – who had the worst jobs in the whole of Auschwitz – lived in better conditions than most of the other prisoners. ‘We had nice quarters, with beds,’ confirms Dario Gabbai, one of the Sonderkommandos who worked at Birkenau in 1944. ‘We ate well. We didn’t need the soup from the camps.’25 The SS usually allowed the Sonderkommandos to keep the food left behind in the undressing room by the Jews taken to the gas chambers. This led to an atmosphere of plenty in the Sonderkommandos’ quarters in the crematorium. Dr Miklós Nyiszli, a Romanian Jew imprisoned at Auschwitz, described a memorable dinner with them. ‘The table awaiting us’, he wrote, ‘was covered with a heavy silk tablecloth … The table was piled high with choice and varied dishes, everything a deported people could carry with them into the uncertain future: all sorts of preserves, bacon, jellies, several kinds of salami, cakes and chocolate.’26
The confines of the KZ offered vast possibilities for research, first in the field of forensic medicine, because of the high suicide rate, and also in the field of pathology, because of the relatively high percentage of dwarfs, giants and other abnormal types of human beings. The abundance—unequaled elsewhere in the world—of corpses, and the fact that one could dispose of them freely for purposes of research, opened even wider horizons.
More recent studies on the history of the Mittelbau-Dora camp are centrally concerned with the responsibility of scientists in V-weapons production and the interdependence of progress and contempt for human beings.26 The studies necessarily focus on the history of the main Dora camp and neglect the importance of the construction projects and the satellite camps of Mittelbau. Only in recent years do new studies, some still unpublished, address the camp complex Mittelbau-Dora27 and the internal structure of the Mittelbau camp.28 Still other more recent studies approach the history of Mittelbau-Dora in terms of the macrostructure. Walter Naasner, Michael Thad Allen, and Jan-Erik Schulte have in recent years presented detailed organizational-historical studies that illuminate the political and armaments-economic context of forced labor in the concentration camps.29 With these, as well as with the Mittelbau-Dora monographs of Neander (1997), Sellier (1998), and Wagner (2001), a change in perspective has taken place since 1997. The focus has moved from Dora to the satellite camps, where inmates performed forced labor at the construction sites and in the excavation of new underground facilities. Mittelbau-Dora is now viewed less as a “rocket camp” than as a “construction camp.” If a symbol for Mittelbau-Dora were needed, it would be—aside from the mountains of famished inmate corpses—the shovel and not the rocket.
Bezaut (Jean), Oranienburg 1933–1935, Sachsenhausen 1936–1945 (Maulévrier: Hérault-Éditions, 1989).
The European Committee’s task is twofold. It represents all the former prisoners of Dora-Mittelbau and their families in their dealings with the competent authorities. It is part of the group of international Nazi concentration camp committees, of which there are nine in all: Auschwitz-Birkenau, Buchenwald-Dora, Dachau, Dora-Mittelbau, Mauthausen, Natzweiler-Struthof, Neuengamme, Ravensbrück, and Sachsenhausen. These groups meet informally to undertake actions of common interest. Their decisions are taken in unanimity. The group’s presidency changes every year, following the alphabetical order of the camps.
9 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 187.
It soon became apparent that the killing techniques of T4 could not easily be replicated in the east. The gas chambers in the killing centres in Austria and Germany had used bottled carbon monoxide gas, and it was impractical – partly because of the expense – to transport canisters of carbon monoxide to the various killing locations spread across the occupied Soviet Union. The mobile gas van had been one way round this ‘problem’, but the physical capacity of the gas van was limited. What the Nazis needed was a cheap and simple method of mass killing that spared the killers the psychological stress caused by facing their victims eye to eye.
The pyre was a ditch 50 yards long, six yards wide and three yards deep, a welter of burning bodies. SS soldiers, stationed at five-yard intervals along the pathway side of the ditch, awaited their victims. They were holding small caliber arms—six millimeters—used in the KZ for administering a bullet in the back of the neck. At the end of the pathway two Sonderkommando men seized the victims by the arms and dragged them for 15 or 20 yards into position before the SS. Their cries of terror covered the sound of the shots. A shot, then, immediately afterwards, even before he was dead, the victim was hurled into the flames. Fifty yards farther on a scene similar in all respects was being enacted. Oberschaarführer Molle was in charge of these butchers. As a doctor, and as an eye-witness, I swear that he was the Third Reich’s most abject, diabolic and hardened assassin. Even Dr. Mengele showed from time to time that he was human. During the selections at the unloading ramp, when he noticed a healthy young woman who above all wanted to join her mother in the left-hand column, he snarled at her coarsely, but ordered her to regain the right-hand group. Even the ace shot of the number one crematorium, Oberschaarführer Mussfeld, fired a second shot into anyone whom the first shot had not killed outright. Oberschaarführer Molle wasted no time over such trifles. Here the majority of the men were thrown alive into the flames. Woe to any Sonderkommando by whose action the living chain, which extended from cloakroom to pyre, was broken, with the result that one of the members of the firing squad was forced to wait for a few seconds before receiving his new victim.
Though anti-Semitism was not unknown in Greece and some Jewish communities had few non-Jewish friends to count on, the broad picture in Greece was one of sympathy and support for the Jews. As one scholar of the history of the Holocaust in Greece concludes, ‘the mass of Greeks offered hospitality to Jews who asked for assistance.’23
It wasn’t until the summer of 1942 that the mass deportation of Jews from France as a consequence of the Final Solution began. This action was intended as part of a pattern for western Europe as a whole. On 11 June, SS Obersturmbannführer (Lieutenant Colonel) Adolf Eichmann of the Department of Jewish Affairs convened a meeting in Berlin to discuss the implementation of the Final Solution with his various representatives from France, the Netherlands and Belgium. He told them that Himmler had ordered the deportation of large numbers of Jews from the west, but that 90 per cent of these Jews had to be fit and healthy. Only 10 per cent could be ‘not able to work’.6 Specific targets for the number of Jews to be deported were also fixed at the meeting – 10,000 from Belgium, 15,000 from the Netherlands and 100,000 from France. The French figure was obviously the most ambitious and represented a challenge for Eichmann’s representative in Paris, Theodor Dannecker, a twenty-nine-year-old SS Hauptsturmführer (captain).
But in at least one respect Eichmann had lied, because the train’s immediate destination was not Switzerland but the concentration camp of Bergen-Belsen in the north of Germany. A section of the camp had been set aside for so-called ‘exchange Jews’ – those the Nazis might try and ransom – and these Jews received better treatment than Jews elsewhere. For example, Shmuel Huppert, who was sent to the exchange camp with his mother in 1943, remembers that not only did he receive enough food to survive in Bergen-Belsen, but he also learnt to play chess in the camp.39 The Jews from the Kasztner train received similar preferential treatment, and after months of protracted negotiations the vast majority eventually reached safety in Switzerland.
One of the most surprising, given the reality of what took place there, was to provide a possible propaganda alibi for the Nazis. In early September 1943, 5,000 Jews were sent to Auschwitz Birkenau from Theresienstadt, north-west of Prague.1 Uniquely among the Jewish prisoners, they were permitted to live in a ‘family camp’ within Birkenau. Though men lived in separate barracks from women, children were not sent directly to the gas chambers, but were allowed to live with one of their parents. The Jews were told to write postcards to their relatives still in the camp at Theresienstadt. The idea was that the Red Cross staff who inspected Theresienstadt would, via this ruse, believe that Birkenau was merely a labour camp. Several months later, once the Nazis had used them in this way, almost all of the Jews in the family camp were murdered in the gas chambers.
Sofsky (Wolfgang), Die Ordnung des Terrors. Das Konzentrationslager (Frankfurt-am-Main: S. Fischer Verlag, 1993). French translation: L’Organisation de la terreur (Paris: Calmnann-Lévy, 1995). English translation: The Order of Terror: The Concentration Camp (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1997).
11 Previously unpublished testimony. Also see Laurence Rees, Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, BBC Books, 2005, pp. 126–31.
In every Nazi concentration camp the population was deliberately mixed, with varying nationalities and reasons for internment. The point was to avoid any solidarity among prisoners in one way or another. Nevertheless, due to circumstances the mixture was never quite the same from one camp to another, and the relationships established among the different groups was peculiar to each camp. The following information concerns Dora and the annex camps and Kommandos, until the end of 1944—i.e., prior to the arrival of prisoners evacuated from Auschwitz and Gross Rosen.
concentration camp locations
But a great number never recovered from the transport and withered away little by little. Sadron spoke in this regard of a “general roll call”: “Lined up on my right were the prisoners that had been isolated in the barracks where a cinema was proposed to be set up. They were the poor souls evacuated from Auschwitz or the eastern camps and who, exhausted by dysentery, were no longer able to work. As there was no gas chamber at Dora and the transports to the Bergen-Belsen death camp could no longer be provided following the bombings, they were just left to die in the immense barracks where they were jammed in together, without medical care, in abominable filth.
Source: Jens-Christian Wagner, Das KZ Mittelbau-Dora: Katalog zur historischen Ausstellung in der KZ-Gedenkstätte Mittelbau-Dora. Herausgegeben im Auftrage der Stiftung Gedenkstätten Buchenwald und Mittelbau-Dora (Göttingen, 2001).
Just as there had been at Sobibór, there were tensions between Stangl and Wirth. According to Suchomel, after Stangl had examined the extermination operation at Treblinka, he recommended that buckets should be placed in the tube – the path that led from the arrival area of the camp to the gas chambers – because the women ‘all defecated you know, while they ran, or stood there, waiting’. Stangl said he had previously put buckets in the tube and it had proved helpful. Wirth answered, ‘I don’t care a damn what you did with the shit in Sobibor. Let them beshit themselves. It can be cleaned up afterwards.’28
17. Cardon-Hamet, Mille Otages pour Auschwitz, pp. 419–20.
43. An overview of the major features of the concentration camp system, including camp commanders and senior-most prisoners in the camp, Reds and Greens, etc., is laid out in chapter 3 below on Buchenwald in 1943.
24 David Cesarani, Final Solution: The Fate of the Jews 1933–49, Macmillan, 2016, p. 600. Also see Mark Mazower, Inside Hitler’s Greece, Yale University Press, 2001, for a description of the deportation of the Jews from Salonica, pp. 238–46.
Kalman Taigman was one of the Jews from the Warsaw ghetto crammed into a freight wagon that September en route to Treblinka. While some Jews on the train believed that they were being sent to their deaths, he still thought that the Nazis might have spoken the truth about what lay ahead. ‘We were told when we were still in the ghetto’, he says, ‘that we were going to the east to work in all kinds of factories. So I thought that I was a young and healthy man and that I was probably being taken to work.’30 But on arrival at Treblinka these illusions were swiftly shattered. ‘It was unbelievable,’ he says. ‘They opened the freight cars and started yelling, “Get out!” in German, of course, yelling, and many of the people who were still standing and breathing came out, but there were some who were already corpses inside the freight cars and they didn’t come out.’ From the healthy Jews who arrived, the SS made a selection and Kalman Taigman was one of those they picked. A relatively large number of Jews were chosen to work in the camp from these early transports to Treblinka in September, in order to ensure that the camp was kept clean and the chaos of Eberl’s regime was not repeated. Out of those chosen from Kalman’s transport, one group started emptying the freight wagons of bodies and another began sorting out the belongings of the Jews who had been taken to the gas chambers.
The Americans, who contributed by prompting the writing of the Buchenwald Report to popularizing through the works of Kogon and Rousset a certain picture of the camps, consigned this report to oblivion because it was favorable to the communists. Its text was made public, everything having by then calmed down, only in 1995, thanks to Rosenberg, who brought out of his personal archives the copy that he had held onto of the Bericht über das Konzentrationslager Buchenwald bei Weimar—the Buchenwald Report’s original German title. An academic in El Paso, Texas (the very city of Fort Bliss), he allowed one of his colleagues from the German department, David A. Hackett, to publish the document.
17 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 132, together with previously unpublished testimony.
At first, Jan couldn’t believe this conclusion; he feared it was a gross exaggeration and therefore a crass form of hero worship. He maintained his belief in 2,139 visas issued and a roughly equal number of survivors. ‘Let’s not make more of it than it is,’ he wrote to Rob. As for the consul general in Stockholm who, according to the historian De Jong, had saved two thousand Jews from the gas chambers, he wrote, ‘What a braggart.’
As I watched, day by day, the final phases of its construction, an idea began to take shape in my mind. Little by little the idea transformed itself into a project. In a few weeks the Sonderkommando would be a thing of the past. We would all perish here, and we were well aware of it. We had even grown used to the idea, for we knew there was no way out. One thing upset me however. Eleven Sonderkommando squads had already perished and taken with them the terrible secret of the crematoriums and their butchers. Even though we did not survive, it was our bounden duty to make certain that the world learned of the unimaginable cruelty and sordidness of a people who pretended to be superior. It was imperative that a message addressed to the world leave this place. Whether it was discovered soon afterwards, or years later, it would still be a terrible manifesto of accusation. This message would be signed by all the members of number one crematorium’s Sonderkommando, fully conscious of their impending death. Carried beyond the barbed wires of KZ in the recamier, it would remain for the time being at Oberschaarführer Mussfeld’s home at Mannheim.
I found it just as valuable to visit hundreds of other locations associated with this history: from the site of the death camp at Sobibór, where the branches of the trees blow in the wind and the sense of isolation is total, to the vast expanse of the semi-circular roll-call area at Sachsenhausen concentration camp outside Berlin; from the ruins of Hitler’s military headquarters at what was Rastenburg in East Prussia to the killing fields of Belarus and Ukraine.
3 Martin Gilbert, The Righteous: The Unsung Heroes of the Holocaust, Black Swan, 2003, p. 439.
The next few chapters will describe the variety of actual situations, ranging from the march from Kleinbodungen to Bergen-Belsen, conducted quickly over a predetermined route, to the lengthy wandering of evacuees from Neu Stassfurt, who still had not reached any destination on the day the Germans capitulated. In northern Germany, compared to railway convoys, marches at first concerned only a minority of prisoners, the most unlucky ones. With the evacuation of Sachsenhausen at the end of April, the proportion changed, but there was no longer any question of using trains to move away from Berlin.
They did not know it at the time, but they had just participated in a selection process in which SS doctors, in a matter of seconds, decided which person should be allowed to live temporarily and which person should die at once. The great majority of people on this transport were selected to be murdered immediately in the gas chambers of Birkenau – including Freda’s mother, along with the baby that had been placed in her arms. The Nazis did not want children, the old or the sick to last more than a few hours in the camp.
The Holocaust is the most infamous crime in the history of the world. We need to understand how this obscenity was possible. And this book, drawing not just on this fresh material but also on recent scholarship and documents of the time, is my attempt to do just that.
THE C CAMP, WHICH WAS SITUATED near the Czech Camp, was composed of Hungarian Jewish women, often as many as 60,000 at a time, in spite of the daily shipments to distant camps. It was in this heavily overpopulated camp that the doctors one day discovered among the inmates of one of the barracks the symptoms of scarlet fever. By Dr. Mengele’s order that barracks, as well as those on either side of it, was quarantined. The quarantine lasted only a short time: from morning till evening, hardly twelve hours. At dusk trucks arrived to embark the inmates of these three barracks to the crematoriums. Such were the efficacious methods employed by Dr. Mengele to prevent the spread of contagious diseases.
Nathan Gutwirth’s story does not include exact dates. Yet my vague, lingering suspicion is that the first refugees found their way to the Dutch consulate earlier than the letters and documents tell us, and that envoy De Decker and consul Zwartendijk started looking for ways to help refugees leave Lithuania right after the Russian occupation on 15 June. In that case, their lifesaving operation must have started earlier. But there’s no evidence of this, aside from the fifteen visas written by the Japanese consul before Peppy’s visit.
I also thought it important to write about the Holocaust only after I had been informed by the geography of the crime – and this is another area in which I hope this book offers something different. I believe I benefited hugely from the insights to be gained by visiting the places where these events took place. I will never forget, for example, the experience many years ago when my friend Mirek Obstarczyk, one of the talented historians working at the Auschwitz museum, took me round every one of the locations across Auschwitz main camp and Birkenau where the Nazis committed mass murder using Zyklon B. I visited these sites with Mirek in the chronological order in which the Nazis used them as killing locations: from the basement of Block 11 in the main camp to the crematorium by the SS administration offices; from the site of the Little Red House and Little White House in a remote area of Auschwitz Birkenau to the remains of the massive crematoria/gas-chamber complexes that emerged at Birkenau only in 1943. Experiencing first hand this geographical progression helped me to understand the conceptual journey the Nazis took at the camp – something I hope I have conveyed in this book.
13 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 130.
In 1942 the static facilities at Chełmno had been destroyed, after the initial transports of Jews selected from Łódź and elsewhere in Poland had ceased and the Reinhard death camps had been established. This attempt to erase the evidence of the crime had included blowing up the building known as the ‘mansion’ that had served as the base for the gas vans in Chełmno village. Now that the killing squad had returned, under the command of SS officer Hans Bothmann, they had to rethink the mechanism of the murder process. They decided, instead of basing the gas vans in the village, to transfer the killing operation to the nearby forest where the bodies had previously been buried. They built barracks, which they pretended were part of a larger camp, and a crematorium near by. When the first transport arrived from Łódź in June 1944, the Jews were taken to spend the night in the church in the village. The next day they were transferred to the barracks in the forest in groups – the number in each group determined by the capacity of the gas vans that were now based in the forest. Once assembled outside the barracks, the Jews were told that they were to be sent to Germany to work. A specific city was always named as their destination. This was a more sophisticated attempt to reassure the Jews than usual, as the name of the city was identical to the one the Jews had been told was their ultimate destination on leaving the Łódź ghetto. The SS then said that the Jews would have to be medically examined and disinfected in a delousing station, so it was necessary for them to take their clothes off. Once inside the barracks, after a mock examination by an SS man dressed in a white coat masquerading as a doctor, the Jews were led forward into a space they thought was the disinfecting chamber. In fact, it was the back of the gas van. ‘The doors were closed, locked and bolted,’ said Szymon Srebrnik, a member of the Chełmno Sonderkommando. ‘The motor was started. The exhaust gas was directed into the van by a special exhaust pipe and it poisoned the people inside … Screams and knocking on the walls of the van continued … When the screams ceased, the van moved and took the bodies to the crematorium.’44
Schacht’s fall from power was characteristic of the fate of a number of those in the traditional right-wing elite who had supported Hitler in the early 1930s. Schacht’s trajectory may have been extreme – not many of them gained such a high position in the Nazi state, and few fell so low as to see the inside of a concentration camp – but the journey from initial euphoria at the creation of the Third Reich to disillusionment at the subsequent aggressive policies of the regime was not uncommon. On 5 November 1937, a few weeks before Schacht lost his job as Economics Minister, Hitler briefed several more members of the old-school German elite on his radical thinking; and when subsequently they failed to manifest fervent approval of his ideas, their careers suffered the same fate as Schacht’s. Present at the meeting in the Reich Chancellery that day were the commanders-in-chief of the army (Generaloberst Werner von Fritsch), the navy (Generaladmiral Erich Raeder) and the air force (Reichsminister of Aviation Hermann Göring), together with the War Minister (Generalfeldmarschall Werner von Blomberg) and the Foreign Minister (Konstantin von Neurath). The infamous Hossbach Memorandum – notes of this meeting taken by Colonel Hossbach, Hitler’s military adjutant – reveals that Hitler openly expressed his desire to gain more territory for Germany in the next few years, and to risk war in order to achieve this end. He didn’t mention at the meeting his most grandiose ambition, the invasion of the Soviet Union, most probably because he wanted to focus on shorter-term goals like the seizing of Austria and Czechoslovakia.
The consequence of works like Im Mörderlager Dachau and Juda verrecke. Ein Rabbiner im Konzentrationslager, together with articles in the Manchester Guardian and other newspapers, was that the brutal nature of the Nazi regime was known to the world from the beginning. However, in parallel to these truthful accounts, misinformation was also published, especially in Germany, which sanitized life in the concentration camps. For example, the local paper for Dachau, the Amper-Bote, claimed in September 1933 that the prisoners spent their spare time ‘contentedly’ playing sport or games and had been observed ‘cheerfully working’.54 Many other German citizens took a similarly benign view of the camps. Erna Krantz, a Munich schoolgirl in the 1930s, says: ‘You just knew of the existence of Dachau, but it was just a prison camp, wasn’t it? We knew that there were Communists there, and criminals.’55 Karl Boehm-Tettelbach, a young air force officer at the time, believed that ‘In Dachau he [Hitler] collected all the professional criminals … and they had to work there … in addition, he got all the gigolos, especially the homosexuals, away from the streets. And they were there in Dachau in that working camp, and the people didn’t object too much at this.’56
Józef Paczyński, a Polish political prisoner, witnessed how a group of male Jews were killed in the crematorium in the main camp. He worked in the SS administrative building directly across from the crematorium, and managed to climb up to the attic, push aside a roof tile and see what was happening below. ‘They [the SS] were very polite with these people,’ he says. ‘ “Please take your clothes, pack your things.” And these people undressed, and then they made them go in [to the crematorium] and then the doors were locked behind them. Then an SS man crawled up on to the flat roof of the building. He put on a gas mask, he opened a hatch [in the roof] and he dropped the powder in and he shut the hatch. When he did this, in spite of the fact that these walls were thick, you could hear a great scream.’29 Because of the screaming, the SS started up ‘two motorcycles’ to try and drown out the noise, but still he heard ‘people yelling for fifteen or twenty minutes and becoming weaker and weaker. If someone had seen me I would have been gassed as well.’30
In early May 1945 the American troops formed a sort of barrier between the Elbe and the Baltic in the western part of Mecklenburg around the capital city, Schwerin, where many columns converged. They had hardly finished liberating the prisoners at Wöbbelin when they found themselves on May 2 faced with the long column of prisoners from Sachsenhausen, which stretched along the road from Pinnow to Crivitz and Parchim and had just lost its guards. It was sixteen miles from Wöbbelin to Parchim.
In Łόdź, the chairman of the Council of Elders was a sixty-three-year-old Jew called Mordechai Chaim Rumkowski. A former director of a Łόdź orphanage, he was a domineering character with little formal education. In his role as chairman of the ghetto he would become one of the most controversial Jewish figures of the Holocaust.
For the whole summer of 1944 Israel lived in a section of Birkenau that he describes as a ‘labour pool’. There were regular selections from within the group, and the chosen prisoners were taken away to work as forced labour, either within the Auschwitz zone of interest or elsewhere in the Nazi empire. Now that he realized that Birkenau contained gas chambers, Israel was desperate to ‘get away from Auschwitz’. As a consequence he ‘always volunteered’ whenever the SS announced they were selecting workers. But they didn’t pick him. He was small – even for a fourteen-year-old – and bigger and stronger prisoners were taken ahead of him.
Recent historical studies make it possible to identify the series of decisions that determined our fate. The first was to make systematic use of the concentration camp labor force in the arms industry. The second, in application of the first, was to make use of prisoners in the factory at Peenemünde (on the Baltic) in the construction of V2s. The third, following the bombing of Peenemünde, was to transfer V2 production to an underground site in Thuringia, using prisoners alone alongside German civilians. The fourth was to situate German aeronautic production as a whole underground, having prisoners do the necessary digging and construction work.
39 Previously unpublished testimony, and from Rees, Auschwitz, p. 270.
34 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 210.
What, at any rate, is highly revealing is that the concentration camp and the SS barracks formed a whole along with the factory and the Mittelwerk camp administration. Any subsequent attempt at dissociation was ruled out. In this complex there were German civilians (and several soldiers, as will be seen), the prisoners, and the SS, none of whom could be unaware of the others’ presence.
Many of those who were later to obtain high positions within the concentration camp system trained under Eicke at Dachau – most notably Rudolf Höss, who became the first commandant of Auschwitz in 1940. He started work as an ordinary SS soldier at Dachau in 1934 and in many ways was the exemplar of the new hard man that Eicke sought to cultivate. He described how Eicke tried to convince his SS men that they were dealing with ‘dangerous enemies of the state’ and so had to treat the prisoners harshly as a consequence.66 But it would be wrong to take Höss’s words, written in the memoirs he composed after the war, entirely at face value. While no doubt Eicke’s methods did have an effect on him, they are not the whole reason why Höss could later oversee the largest site of mass murder in the history of the world. Like many of those who joined the SS and came to Dachau, he had a past that predisposed him to embrace the values that Eicke sought to impart.
In the wake of Hitler’s resolution to fight to the end, the Allies had their own politically controversial issues to confront – not least what to do with the detailed knowledge they now possessed about the murders the Nazis were committing at Auschwitz.
Along the way, the Jewish refugees were attacked by Lithuanian civilians. Hundreds of men, women, and children were stabbed with pitchforks, or shot with hunting rifles by the roadside. Others were taken to the Ninth Fort near Kaunas, where Lithuanian militias carried out a more systematic genocide. They made their victims stand against the ramparts in rows of twelve for execution. Each new group had to clear away the last twelve bodies, dragging them into a mass grave.
The curiosity of two students has contributed to this effort of memory. The first is Florent Brayard, who became interested in Paul Rassinier—initially in his capacity as a prisoner at Buchenwald, then at Dora. Through the association, Brayard distributed a questionnaire in 1990, the answers to which are of a more general interest. Brayard, no doubt caught up with reverence for a former deportee, ended up giving Rassinier’s testimony too much credit.21 In 1991 the student Anne Le Turdu was placed in charge of analyzing a series of oral testimonies on Dora that she herself had collected, on the basis of which she produced a useful study on various aspects of the camp’s history.22
Whereas the specialists working in the tunnel factory were housed in the blocks nearest the roll-call yard, newcomers were sent to the most recently built blocks in the rear of the camp. This was the case, as noted earlier, for the Hungarian Jews and Gypsies arriving from Auschwitz before they were transferred to Ellrich or Harzungen. The specialists hardly had the chance or the free time to loiter about the area. Personally, the author preferred to walk up the hill behind Block 104, where one could have an unobstructed view.
7 Testimony from Auschwitz: The Nazis and the ‘Final Solution’, Episode 5, written and produced by Laurence Rees, transmitted on BBC2, February 2005.
This moment in the history is also an appropriate time to review the role of the Nazi leader in creating and orchestrating the Holocaust. As we have seen, Hitler did not simply devise a blueprint for the scheme and then order his underlings to complete the task. His involvement in the crime was much more complex than that, and reflects the nature of his leadership of the Nazi state. Though he was undoubtedly a charismatic leader, he did not ‘hypnotize’ Germans to do his bidding. Instead, he tried to convince them that he was right. ‘My whole life’, he said, ‘can be summed up as this ceaseless effort of mine to persuade other people.’63
1 There were also camps in Belarus, for example, at Maly Trostenets and Bronna Gorá where Jews were murdered, but neither had fixed gas chambers.
49 Rees, Auschwitz, p. 110.
Light One Candle: a survivor’s tale from Lithuania to Jerusalem (Tokyo, 1995) by Solly Ganor is generally seen as one of the finest books about the Holocaust. There is also a German edition: Das andere Leben: Kindheit im Holocaust (Frankfurt am Main, 1997). Anonymous online Holocaust deniers have tried to discredit the book, claiming that Ganor did not spent a single day in Dachau. An open letter from his fellow camp inmates has proved them wrong.
The underground complex where it was decided, on August 26, 1943, to transfer the Peenemünde production factory had been dug in the Kohnstein hill, to the south of the Harz Mountains. The successive waves of prisoners from Buchenwald that were sent there knew nothing about this underground facility, which they discovered with alarm; they did not even know the name of the hill itself, about which they would remain ignorant. The geographical landmarks—Thuringia, the Harz Mountains, Nordhausen—would all come later, and in generally imprecise fashion. Thus care must be taken not to rely excessively on notations of this kind to be found in the memoirs.
