Regarding the Tube, Haimi and team found a long pattern of parallel post-holes. “This pattern of two rows… are interpreted as being the remains of the final section of the Himmelfahrtstrasse, which should have led to the gas chambers” (p. 126). Unfortunately for the team, this pattern leads to what is now a large (roughly 30m x 30m) paved asphalt memorial lot; excavating there would mean tearing up the sacred memorial site.
The picture of the mistreatment of Demjanjuk can be fleshed out still further by looking at other information provided by News Weekly. On 18th May 1988 its report of statements by Nishnic included the following: ‘Contrary to press reports in Australia, Demjanjuk made no ‘confession’ either to the American marshals who escorted him to Israel, or to an Israeli policeman who spoke Ukrainian, he said… the reports were false, and no such evidence was introduced at the trial.’ A comprehensive study on the reporting by the major Australian print media of the Demjanjuk affair between 1986 and 1993 would almost certainly show a continued bias in favor of his accusers. We are entitled to ask why.
In 1933, 40 percent of the ministers of the Evangelical Church representing Lutherans and Calvinists, were NSDAP members.42 A Nazified Christianity organized as the Evangelical Reich Church had majority support among Protestants. They were opposed by a minority headed by the celebrated Martin Niemöller who, far from being anti-Nazi, welcomed Hitler’s assumption to power, but opposed the Nazification of theology. In 1937, to deal with opposition among the religious, section IV-B was created within the Gestapo. McDonough notes that the Gestapo were slow to act against clergymen regardless of their anti-government sermons. When they did act it was often due to complaints from the public. It was “extremely rare” for cases to reach trial. The Gestapo acted with “great caution” on complaints against clergy. A “fair trial was the norm, not the exception.” Niemöller was held in protective custody in 1937 after four years of anti-Nazi polemics. In 1938 a special court found Niemöller not guilty, but Hitler personally intervened, regarding him as the focus of anti-Nazi activity. He survived the war in Sachsenhausen and Dachau.43 Nonetheless the Confessing Church was not banned, and continued even during the war to submit criticism of the State.44
Quite obviously the two field crematoria found by the Soviets in May 1945 were the only tangible remainder of the ”Russenaktion“. Apparently the commission made no effort to find the ashes of the victims (according to Sakowski, they were dumped into a ditch near the future new crematorium). The testimonies of former Sachsenhausen inmates, which are full of fantastic descriptions of the shooting barracks, did not yet exist in May/June 1945. An exception is the so-called ”Häftlingsbericht“ the former communist prisoner Hellmut Bock produced while he was still in the camp, probably with active assistance from the NKVD. Several months later the former detainees Paul Sakowski (who had been forced to carry the bodies of the shot during the ”Russenaktion“) and Emil Büge (who had been employed at the camp office) made their testimonies. Both of them would become key witnesses as to what (really or allegedly) had transpired at Sachsenhausen. In 1945/46 Büge was at Augsburg, working for the Americans, while Sakowski remained in NKVD custody. There are compelling reasons to doubt the veracity of their testimonies, but we cannot discuss this subject here.
On the other hand, Messing did not mention any functional anomalies of the ventilation system: if, therefore, the real 40 intake openings or the assumed 50 adequately fulfilled their function, why then would 95 have been necessary in Crematorium III?
Of the stunning finding of the foundations of the gas chamber, we get nothing: no size, no location, no structure, no maps, no photos, no surrounding artifacts—nothing. Of the orange tiles, no mention of the Polish firm that created them long before the war. All in all, an appalling bit of pseudo-archaeology and a risible piece of reporting. But this is par for the Holocaust.
The Auschwitz orthodoxy claims that four holes had been chiseled through the roof of the morgues in question. While some witnesses have claimed that the Zyklon B was simply dumped through those holes, others have claimed that some more-or-less-sophisticated devices were installed beneath those holes.
Which brings me to the final point: The selections at the railway ramps near the Auschwitz Camp and (later) inside the Auschwitz-Birkenau Camp. There can be no doubt that these selections took place. They happened at Auschwitz, and they happened at other German wartime camps as well. They were usually performed by physicians, and it is safe to say that Mengele, as one of the many Auschwitz physicians, was ordered to do them as well.
This article discusses some of the evidence proving that there were no homicidal gas chambers in any of the German camps during World War II.
[8] Hart, B. H. Liddell, The Other Side of the Hill, London: Papermac, 1970, pp. 200-201; see also Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, p. 76.
Gay Alcorn, a journalist with The Age, published a report on a long interview she had with Andrew Bolt (who writes for the opposition paper, the Herald Sun, which is, like The Australian, owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Limited. It was magnanimous of The Age to give Bolt this fair hearing.) Bolt felt that the case against him had been mounted essentially to outlaw an opinion and stressed his belief that even “Holocaust denial” (which he rejects) should not be outlawed. Brendan O’Neill strongly attacked the claim that racial vilification law is needed for social cohesion. He noted that “the language of liberty has been twisted by the AHRC to make illiberal things sound liberal, authoritarianism seem just and tyranny appear enlightened.” He added that “most of the AHRC commissioners have “come down on the side of state control rather than individual liberty” and are “forever reminding folk their right to free speech can be rescinded if they say anything too outrageous or risky or threatening to public morals.” O’Neill then went on the warpath: “The paternalistic notion that certain ideas must be hidden from view because they have the power to rattle society – or ‘damage social cohesion’, as [supporters of 18C put it] – has fuelled every act of censorship from Torquemada silencing morality-corrupting heretics during the Spanish Inquisition to British censors banning Lady Chatterley’s Lover….. Arguing that prejudiced speech must be quashed to preserve social harmony may sound PC, but it’s the bastard ideological offspring of the thirst for social control and fear of the unpredictable public that have motivated every censor.” O’Neill proved his critique of the human rights movement, which he saw as coming out of “the darkest moment” of World War Two and the Nazi tyranny, by quoting from the websites of the AHRC and the European Convention on Human Rights. He contrasted this movement with that of the Eighteenth Century’s democratic rights movement, which was about restraining the state from tyrannizing over individuals.[71]
Kranz’s assertion that there are “practically no documents” concerning the construction and operation of the Majdanek gas chambers is not borne out by the facts; there is, on the contrary, a considerable quantity of such documents. Using this evidence, Carlo Mattogno has outlined the construction of such rooms in chapter VI,2 of the book on Majdanek which he wrote with me. However, the documents clearly show that these rooms were hygienic installations for the destruction of vermin, i.e. the very “disinfestation plants using hydrocyanic acid” he speaks about. The fact that hydrocyanic acid was used here can be seen immediately when looking at the quantity of blue stains on all its walls.
In June 1944, Churchill viewed a Jewish Agency report on the workings of the alleged “Nazi gas chambers” in the concentration camps. He sent a memorandum to Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden, asking: “Foreign Secretary, what can be done? What can be said?” The evidence indicates that Churchill wanted to issue another Allied threat of retribution, but the Foreign Office said that too many such pronouncements had already been made.[49]
Documents from the National Archives used to substantiate claims that British intelligence agents murdered Heinrich Himmler in 1945 are forgeries, The Daily Telegraph can reveal today.[4] It seems certain that the bogus documents were somehow planted among genuine papers to pervert the course of historical study. The results of investigations by forensic document experts on behalf of this newspaper have shocked historians and caused tremors at the Archives, the home of millions of historical documents, which has previously been thought immune to distortion or contamination.
[2] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, p. 55.
And this brings us to the most important question: How did Kounio know all this? He worked as a tailor in Auschwitz and never even set foot in Birkenau. Who provided him with that information? A member of the Sonderkommando? Probably not, because not only the information is wrong, but he also states:
Another example of false Jewish-eyewitness testimony of the Holocaust story occurred in the case of Frank Walus, who was a retired Chicago factory worker charged with killing Jews in his native Poland during the war. An accusation by Simon Wiesenthal that Walus had worked for the Gestapo prompted the U.S. government’s legal action. Eleven Jews testified under oath during the trial that Walus had murdered Jews during the war. After a costly four-year legal battle, Walus was finally able to prove that he had spent the war years as a teenager working on German farms. An American Bar Association article published in 1981 concluded regarding Walus’s trial that “…in an atmosphere of hatred and loathing verging on hysteria, the government persecuted an innocent man.”[26]
I do not know when David Irving’s long-announced book about Heinrich Himmler will be published, but I fear that I already know the gist of it: Yes, the Holocaust did indeed happen; millions of Jews were exterminated, but only an insignificant number were gassed at Auschwitz. Upwards of two million Jews were killed by some unknown means at Treblinka, Sobibor and Belzec; between one and two million were shot, or murdered in gas vans, on the killing fields of Russia. For this crime Adolf Hitler bears no responsibility whatsoever. It was ordered and organized by the Reichsführer SS Heinrich Himmler, who somehow managed to hide this gigantic massacre from his Führer.
Senior officers of the London constabulary Scotland Yard appeared and gathered evidence as to the conditions theretofore. They made no secret of the fact that they were preparing for a trial of the commandant and guard staff of the English interrogation camp […]
Over the next few months the idea evolved.  Bradley was more interested in what he had dubbed “The Campus Project” and his efforts to get the word about the Holocaust controversy out to students, who he believed were more intellectually honest and open to new ideas than most others including their professors. Rather than creating a publication for the revisionist community as I had originally envisioned, The Revisionist would become a vehicle to support the Campus Project.  In addition, Bradley decided that he would give away 90% of every issue for free.  In “A Note from the Publisher” in the first issue Bradley explained:
While most sibs originated from PWE, the success of this gas-chamber rumor led to a War Ofﬁce suggestion passed to Cavendish-Bentinck’s JIC in November 1941. They had heard it from their military attaché in Berne, Col. H.A. Cartwright (who was in fact an MI6 ofﬁcer) as “a story which, with some variations, has been circulating freely in Berne, and has come in from various quite independent informants always from apparently reliable sources.”[28]
I have narrated these events in such detail to show the compelling evidence that statements from the Pooks were first taken at some point during January. It is important to establish this clearly because there is an intriguing circumstantial argument to the contrary. Here we return to the theme of the manipulation of witness statements by the WCIT. In addition to the Sehm statement of October 10 cited above, a second version of Sehm’s statement was prepared and is included in a set of copies of exhibits to be used at trial.[76] This version, which is given the same date, is identical to the normal statement, with one exception: Sehm’s discussion of his friend Pook, to whom he showed a copy of the mysterious travel report, is omitted.
Holocaust researcher Thomas Dalton discussed the enormous problems in regard to the unburned bones and teeth of the corpses. The ash from the burnt corpses would have to be sifted every day for bones and teeth. Imagine how long it would take to find and smash millions of bones and teeth with hammers! If not found and ground to ash, they are still in the earth, waiting to be discovered.[72]
Significantly even the elementary (but important) question of how many such ovens existed at Sachsenhausen has not been clarified up to the present day. The only undisputed fact is that at the end of the war two field crematoria were found in the camp, where they were standing under a shed roof surrounded by all kinds of trash (Illustration 2).
Dr. Rascher and his hypothermia experiments at Dachau were also not well regarded by many German medical doctors. In an essay titled “Nazi Science—The Dachau Hypothermia Experiments,” Dr. Robert L. Berger, a “Holocaust” survivor, wrote:[22]
The genocide of European Jewry has been given legitimacy by the numerous trials conducted by the Allies after the Second World War. Dr. Arthur Butz, in his groundbreaking book The Hoax of the Twentieth Century, wrote about the Allied postwar trials that “it is a fact that without the evidence generated at these trials, there would be no significant evidence that the program of killing Jews ever existed at all.”[1] Jewish groups and individuals played key roles in establishing and conducting these trials.
The so-called Holocaust has also been effectively used to induce guilt in the German people. As British historian Ian Kershaw writes:[14]
Student journalists who are Jewish are under special pressure from the Holocaust Lobby to betray, not only their ideals as journalists, but the long tradition of intellectual liberty for which Jews have worked throughout the Western world. On campus, Jewish editors are attacked by well-meaning but unsophisticated Jewish students who are egged on by Hillel rabbis functioning as semi-professional censors.
Ah, but wait…one more thing: body disposal. Two thousand bodies per day is quite a heap. It would take acres of mass graves to hold them all, and even these would only hide, not destroy, the evidence. Better to build cheap, high-volume crematoria. Knowing that it takes one hour to fully incinerate, down to ash, one body, our designer would need 100 muffles (oven openings), operating 20 hours per day, to handle the load. Compare to Auschwitz. The largest crematoria there—Kremas 2 and 3—each had 15 muffles. So our man needs the equivalent of seven Krema 2’s to do the job. At each camp. And coke to fuel them all. So much for ‘no budget, no plan.’
In the end, I can't recommend this book to anyone interested in a better understanding of the Holocaust. This book adds as much confusion as insight. But it is useful in the study of 'Holocaustism'—that growing ideology of persecution and guilt, so useful for propaganda purposes and monetary extortion. The failings of orthodoxy are now in full view, open to all who are willing to see.
“Dieses Böse hat einen Namen: Der Holocaust. Ein von Nazi-Deutschland minutiös geplanter und ausgeführter systematischer Massenmord, der Millionen von Menschen brutal vom Angesicht der Erde hinweggefegt hat. Mehr als sechs Millionen dieser Menschen waren Juden.”
Those long and/or deeply familiar with the debunking of the Holocaust mythology that attained critical mass in 1976 with the publication of Arthur Butz’s Hoax of the 20th Century might view Kollerstrom’s oeuvre as a rehash—an extensive, but still partial, listing of the reasons why people should not credit what they have been told about the cruelty and genocidal intent of the National Socialists in the 1930s and 40s. That, viewed in a wide scope, would be a mistake, for several reasons.
Austria is divided into 4 occupation zones on January 7. IMT Tokyo commences on April 29. Irgun bomb attack against King David Hotel in Jerusalem on July 22. On December 12, a socialist government is formed in France by Jewish socialist and former Buchenwald inmate Léon Blum.
Bishop Farrell says the “meticulous documentation kept by the Nazis proves that the Holocaust and the death of six million Jews is a historical fact.” Once again, this is a statement that is grounded in either ignorance or prejudice.
“former detainees assigned to work at the gas chambers or at the disinfestation chambers recalled that the Zyklon granules, after their use, were collected in containers, transported to the theater building warehouse, and shipped back to the manufacturer. However, we have been unable to find traces of these transports in the camp’s documents.” (p. 73)
The following study is the result of my personal visit to Dachau over a period of three days in mid-2011. All photos included below are my own. Photo 1 shows the exterior of the crematorium building, with the external wall of the gas chamber on the left (behind the water downspout). Photo 2 is the current floor plan.
Next governments are instructed that they ‘must’ oppose those who ‘deny, denigrate or trivialise the Holocaust’. This appears to be a clear and serious attack on intellectual freedom. The nature of Nazi treatment and mistreatment of Jews during the period 1933-1945 ought to be open to free public discussion just like any other great and serious topic, such as whether or not Jesus was divine or whether or not a particular sacred scripture is or is not ‘the Word of God’. At the present time there is a school of writers who are fairly to be described as ‘revisionist historians’ or ‘Holocaust revisionists’. The nature of their theses can currently be quickly studied on the website of Inconvenient History, and it will be noted by any fair-minded observer that their writings have intellectual substance and ethical integrity, so that they cannot validly be dismissed with ridicule and without proper, reasoned examination.. The problem with the Declaration is that it overlooks the fact that opponents of these historians habitually mis-name them ‘Holocaust deniers’ – as though they were denying the existence of any Nazi wrongdoing to Jews of any kind, rejecting, as it were, ‘the whole box and dice.’ Such is in fact a gross slander of Holocaust revisionists. There is reason to fear that the terms ‘denigrate’ and ‘trivialise’ can also be misused in the same way to unfairly attack and dismiss these researchers.
After the war, Rassinier returned to his native France and was elected to the Assemblee Nationale. He was awarded the highest decoration by the French government for his involvement with the Resistance during the war. Rassinier, who was trained in history, set out after the war to document his experiences within the German concentration camp system. Rassinier paints a horrible picture of the dead being brought from Dora to Buchenwald for cremation, "Every day trucks brought full loads of dead bodies from Dora to be cremated at Buchenwald, and it was from the presence of these corpses that the horrors of the camp were deduced."[4]
Often people were kept in the gas chambers overnight with the motor not turned on at all. Overcrowding and lack of air killed many of them in a very painful way. However, many survived the ordeal of such nights; particularly the children showed a remarkable degree of resistance. They were still alive when they were dragged out of the chambers in the morning, but revolvers used by the Germans made short work of them…[19]
In spite of all the impressive credits to his name and reputation as an educator and scholar, his unswerving commitment to historical accuracy inevitably led to a collision with Germany’s “Holocaust-denial” laws. As the German translator and publisher of Professor Arthur Butz’s Hoax of the Twentieth Century, which was later banned by German authorities, Walendy was arraigned before a court and convicted of ‘incitement’ - presumably against Jews. His subsequent conviction resulted in a 15-month penalty tacked onto his previous conviction, both sentences to run concurrently. For a man of Walendy’s age, this could very well amount to a sentence of death in prison. Such a grave misapplication of justice for one man’s “crime” of honestly expressing his opinion and refusing to retract has rarely been seen since the days when brute beasts of the field were arraigned before medieval magistrates to answer for ‘crimes,’ after which they were duly hanged, drawn and quartered or burned at the stake.
Primo Levi, a Jewish Communist, is another disabled Jew who one would think would have been executed at Auschwitz-Birkenau. However, along with about 7,000 to 8,000 additional disabled Jews, Levi was left behind in Auschwitz. Although the Germans could have easily gassed and cremated these Jewish inmates in crematorium V in Birkenau during the first week of January 1945, they let them survive the war to tell their stories about Auschwitz-Birkenau.[37]
The main mystery is that this German “transcript” contains fundamental passages – such as Höss’s meeting with Himmler in Berlin, his visit to Treblinka, and the figure of three million Auschwitz victims – which have no equivalent passages in the two handwritten texts. Were these missing passages added later by Höss? But if that is so, then why are they not in any of the two handwritten texts? Or were they compiled by the British? If we consider that Höss stated he signed this document without knowing what was in it, this suggest that the second option is correct. However, the problem of authenticity of this text is only second in importance to that of its truthfulness, since Höss willingly or unwillingly supported this transcript by formally certifying it as the “absolute truth.” For this reason, I consider Höss to be the author of this text when analyzing it in Part Two, although there are serious doubts about it.
“I explained repeatedly that I would not participate in a debate with a Holocaust denier. The existence of the Holocaust was not a matter of debate.” (p. 1)
DEFENSE: May it please the court, that isn’t the point at all. These men have nothing to say on the stand, but they don’t want the court to get the impression that they are refusing to take the stand, or refusing to answer any questions. They are merely throwing themselves on the court, with these words: “I have nothing to hide”. There is no point in their taking the stand. I wouldn’t know what to ask them. The prosecution has not brought one thing out against them. There is nothing for them to defend. But they don’t want the court to get the idea they are hiding anything, and for that reason they open themselves to the request of the court. There is nothing improper about that. The burden of proof is on the prosecution to prove that these men are guilty of what they are charged with. There has been no evidence brought out against them. The prosecution takes the position that the burden is on them to prove that they are innocent.
(As I've already indicated, there's nothing in this book about Holocaust revisionism, and that is true even in Riggenbach's sections on Martin, despite Martin's support for Holocaust revisionism. However, according to what I've heard through the libertarian grapevine, because of Martin's support for Holocaust revisionism and his association with the Institute for Historical Review (IHR), Riggenbach has been criticized for favorably discussing him by a former associate of Ayn Rand, Barbara Branden, who is a Holocaust true believer and a fanatical Zionist.)
The Soviet commission of inquiry, which conducted its activity at Auschwitz in February-March 1945, was completely ignorant of the term "Bunker": it always used the expression "gas chamber" (газовая камера, gazovaja kamera) Numbers 1and 2. The witness par excellence, Szlama Dragon, in the first deposition rendered before a Soviet examining magistrate on 26 February 1945, also spoke of "gazokamera [газокамерa] Numbers 1 and 2" and explicitly stated that this was the official designation. H. Tauber, in his deposition dated 27 and 28 February 1945, referred only to "gas chambers" ("газовые камеры", gazovie kameri). The term "Bunker" appeared for the first time in the deposition of Stanisław Jankowski (also a self-proclaimed member of the "Sonderkommando") dated 16 April 1945[73].
These and other admissions by Ferencz cast an immediate cloud over the entirety of the proceedings. Is this the sort of deposer who might be relied upon to present fair and objective evidence at a major trial?[21]
The train stops at Kaschau, on the Czech border, and it is only now the Jews realize they will not remain in their native Hungary. Only now, when it is “too late,” are their eyes opened. Elie tells us this because as recently as their stay at the Big Ghetto they might have escaped, the ghetto being unguarded, but the Jews stayed nevertheless thinking the Germans would not have time to expel them, the front was too close, et cetera. Now they are to cross into Czechoslovakia where they soon find themselves at Auschwitz. And surprisingly, no one had ever heard this name before. As the train arrives, a certain Madame Schächter, who had become hysterical on four separate occasions crying about flames and fire and furnaces where none were to be seen, now cries out a fifth time that flames are leaping from a tall chimney into the black sky.[4] And this time her visions are apparently real. Adding to the scene is an abominable odor and odd-looking characters dressed in striped shirts and black trousers who enter the wagon beating people with truncheons, yelling for everyone to evacuate the cars quickly. Maybe to insure they do not end up somewhere else. For soon we discover these prisoners are somehow no longer at Auschwitz, but nearby Birkenau. Not that there is any difference. They are still confronted by the sight of flames and the scent of burning flesh.
Polish Foreign Minister Józef Beck accepted an offer from Great Britain on March 30, 1939, to give an unconditional guarantee of Poland’s independence. The British Empire agreed to go to war as an ally of Poland if the Poles decided that war was necessary. In words drafted by British Foreign Secretary Lord Halifax, Chamberlain spoke in the House of Commons on March 31, 1939:
The spirit of intolerance that today characterizes much of Europe has seeped by steady increments into mainstream academic institutions in the United States. For example, DePaul University recently said “Sayonara, Professor” to Norman Finkelstein, the controversial author of The Holocaust Industry and a consistent critic of Zionist policies.
Ditlieb Felderer would also publish an early revisionist book, Auschwitz Exit, using the pen name Abraham Cohen. Felderer claimed that he used the pen name in order to gain entry to various communist countries in order to conduct research and that use of his real name would result in denial of entry. Felderer's concerns appear to have been justified. In 1981, he was imprisoned by the government of Poland.[12]
I recall that in the courtyard of Crematorium V there was a cremation site measuring 50 meters square, more or less square, therefore each side measured approximately 7 x 7 meters. How reliable are these witnesses?
Perhaps most significantly, this little episode brings to mind similar claims about the more important camps like Auschwitz, Treblinka, and Belzec. Lacking physical evidence, how can we justify claims of thousands, or hundreds of thousands, or a million Holocaust victims at these camps? For the journalist Goldman, however, the lies about Jasenovac only “contaminate” the larger Holocaust story, which he accepts unquestioningly. As he says, “Why allow the contamination of Holocaust history with a place [Jasenovac] that cannot provide any independent forensic evidence past a few thousand victims, and that has an ever-increasing—including in 2021—victim list that has been repeatedly proven to have been doctored?” Indeed; and we can ask the same question about virtually all of the conventional Holocaust sites. The implications are dire for Jews everywhere.
Quite obviously, as in Russia and Poland the Holocaust story is part and parcel of American and British political culture. After all, the Americans and British also “saved” the world from “the evil Germans” who were “attempting” to “exterminate” the Jews and other “inferior races.” This writer was raised in a non-Jewish, patriotic American community, and he clearly remembers how this theme was emphasized by his educators—Catholic nuns and priests, teachers, family members and non-Jewish political officials. It was not exclusively Jewish sources in the mass media who were indoctrinating my young mind with this American patriotic belief.
But this precious Allies-monopolized sustenance could be had, at a price that many were able, by hook or by crook, to pay: testimony as to German atrocities. This did not by any means require actual experience of said atrocities. It only required an awareness of what the dominant thrust of desired testimony already was and a credible account supporting the “witness’s” presence at or even just near the places where they were said to have occurred. And this, in turn, was available, perhaps for a price, from those conspicuous, well-fed and otherwise comfortable denizens of the enviable living that was provided for “witnesses” able to provide testimony of the desired sort. An “industry”—the first “Holocaust Industry”—was born.
Like Valla’s, Butz’s work fell victim to (or benefitted from, depending on how you look at it) technological improvements in the dissemination of information subsequent to initial publication. Valla’s opus appeared in 1440, some years before the printing press, and spreading literacy, enabled his words to spread farther and faster. The Pauline Index first appeared in 1559, after the printing press and its products—books, newspapers, pamphlets, etc.—had diffused to a considerable extent, and Valla’s work made the cut[2]. Butz’s work made it onto the Amazon bandwagon safely enough (Amazon started up in 1994), but its (downloadable) Kindle edition came along around the time of what might be deemed the Holocaust’s current “supernova” period beginning perhaps around 1992, when Germany enacted its first law criminalizing Holocaust denial, and it all got to be too much for those institutions, such as the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial and Museum, and the Index of the Twenty-First Century finally came crashing down.
While German Prime Minister Angela Merkel marched for Charlie Hebdo it is important to recall that on 15 June 1995 a German judge ruled that all copies of the book Grundlagen zur Zeitgeschichte (Foundations of Modern History) be burned. In the runup to this order, a raid was conducted against the German publisher of this title and all copies were confiscated by the authorities. The book’s editor, a German physicist named Germar Rudolf, was ordered to be arrested.[7] At the time, Grundlagen was the most up-to-date academic book dealing with forensic evidence of the murder of Jews by the National Socialist regime.
There are (at least) two things that appear odd about this procedure. The major one is the underlying tacit admission by the author that there is no indisputable proof of the uniqueness, singularity or whatever qualifier one might choose, of the Auschwitz crimes. The minor one is that by applying such a method, the author rejects the old legal rule “in dubio pro reo“ – that in case of doubt one should rule in favor of the accused; on the contrary, van Pelt interprets spurious items as he thinks fit and seems to hold that, at some point, a sufficient quantity of questionable elements will fuse into a new whole and serve as solid evidence against the accused.
“But if the law is not the solution, alternatives must be offered that may achieve more efficient results. Various options have been explored in this chapter, but the most convincing approach might require a combination of several methods. It is suggested that the following aspects have an impact on this consideration. First, genocide and Holocaust denial takes place in different societies and in different contexts. The identification of the most appropriate ratio of methods to counter denialism is therefore dependent on situational parameters. In some societies, the widespread nature of denial may require more of a communal effort, including a heightened emphasis on public education and the establishment of institutions capable of reaching out to society as a whole. Where denialism is promoted merely by a small minority within a society, the focus might shift to options for dealing with the leaders and followers of that movement. Second, not all deniers are cut from the same cloth. The political leader who built a following on denialism, the author whose prominence relies on denialist ideology, act from motivations which differ from those at the bottom of the movement, who may often not have given much thought to the evidence of the atrocities or indeed to the consequences of denialist activities. Genuine curiosity may occasionally be encountered in the latter group, but cannot be expected in the former, and the appropriate methods of dealing with the conduct of deniers will therefore have to vary accordingly. Third, even within a particular target group, a detailed assessment of the available methods is indispensable. The impact of an academic article on a juvenile delinquent may be doubted; the showing of a film on the atrocities that he denied might be more effective; the confrontation with actual physical remnants of international crimes and meetings with survivors have carried some success in the past. Fine-tuning these approaches is key to the development of a persuasive response mechanism; and that in turn requires a certain insight into the psychological conditioning of the followers of denialism. Since the disassociation from ‘mainstream society’ is often at the core of their ideology, the success of any option to counter denialism might well be measured not by the degree to which their exclusion from the community has been achieved, but by the degree to which society has managed to effect their reintegration.” (p. 249)
When the Soviet Communists took control of Auschwitz in January 1945, they transported to Moscow hundreds of boxes of war time German documents about the camp, and deposited them in an archive controlled by the secret police.[66] In the future, political realities may dictate that Russia should expose the Holocaust mythology for the politically inspired falsehood that it is. If this comes to be, the Russians may reveal formerly hidden documents to the world and deliver the final death blow to the Holocaust mythology. Revisionist historian Jürgen Graf made another interesting suggestion: in a serious future confrontation between the Russian and United States governments, the Kremlin may decide to publish formerly suppressed documents, proving that the “Nazi extermination camps” belong to the realm of propaganda.[67]
By contrast, Zyklon B cannot be safely used to kill large numbers of people in homicidal gas chambers. Dr. Robert Faurisson states in regard to Zyklon-B poisoning: “The corpse of a man who has just been killed by this powerful poison is itself a dangerous source of poisoning, and cannot be touched with bare hands. In order to enter the HCN-saturated chamber to remove the corpse, special gear is needed, as well as a gas mask with a special filter.”[18] The danger of touching someone killed with Zyklon-B gas is confirmed in the scientific literature.[19]
Since, therefore, Danuta Czech considers the 1,408 transferred Gypsies as forming part of these 1,500 sent to Auschwitz, according to her logic, they should not be subtracted from the 2,898 Gypsies presumed gassed, as I had done in the first draft of this article.[69] Apart from this rather unimportant point, this alleged fact in no way influences the structure of my argument.
Van Pelt presents two tables in which the residual concentration of hydrogen cyanide in the “gas chamber” is calculated in ppm (parts per million) as a function of time, as well as the median concentration to which a person would have been exposed for 15 minutes, all based on an initial concentration of 1,000 and of 10,000 ppm.
During and after the war there were “eyewitnesses” to mass gassings at Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen, Dachau, and other camps in Germany proper. Today, virtually all recognized scholars dismiss this testimony as false. Establishment historians, however, still claim that mass gassings happened at several camps in Poland. The evidence for this claim is, in reality, qualitatively no different to the false testimony and evidence for the alleged mass gassings at the camps in Germany proper.[2]
Germar Rudolf, a certified chemist, expanded on Leuchter’s work by writing the Rudolf Report in the spring of 1992. The Rudolf Report, which has been updated and revised several times, focused on engineering and chemical aspects of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz and Birkenau. Rudolf observed in his on-site examinations that all of the delousing facilities at Auschwitz, Birkenau, Stutthof and Majdanek have one thing in common: their walls are permeated with Prussian Blue. Not only the inner surfaces, but also the exteriors of the walls and the mortar between the bricks of the delousing facilities have Prussian Blue staining. Nothing of this sort can be observed in any of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz and Birkenau.
Leaving aside for a moment the gas chambers and the fires, let’s have a look at another example that highlights the historical value of this book. Before his deportation, Cohen was held at a camp in Haidari, a suburb of Athens. As they did not know the commander’s name (in a footnote the editor writes that it was Paul Radomski), they had named him Wire (from a Greek expression). Later, on one day while in Birkenau, they were ordered to clean the crematorium, because the new camp commander was about to come any time soon. Several days later, a black Mercedes arrived and an officer with a uniform full of medals and a whip in hand got out. And what a surprise, it was Wire himself! Long time, no see...
“Commander-in-Chief armed forces Lublin district informed me that he had evidence that some of these people are being murdered in gas cells there.”
One particularly prevalent feature of all “war crimes trials” is the so-called “War Crimes Report”. There are hundreds of these “reports”, undoubtedly thousands. Legally, they are all hearsay, but “admissible hearsay”, of highly dubious credibility. For example, at Dachau, the “Chavez Report”, which was to have “proven” the existence of a “gas chamber” at Dachau, was never introduced into evidence, and the accusation was dropped before trial. Col. Chavez appeared as an expert witness at Dachau on Nov. 15, 1945, but made no mention of a gas chamber. The Chavez Report was then re-written and introduced into evidence at Nuremberg as documents 2430-PS and 159-L, even though it was known to be untrue. Chavez was never cross-examined on his “report”, since his “report” did not form part of his direct testimony.
Long branded as crackpot or “anti-Semitic,” Holocaust revisionism is increasingly dismissed by its adversaries, including such worthies as the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, Wikipedia, and Time magazine, as a “conspiracy theory.” The authors of Révisionnisme contre complotisme (Revisionism vs. Conspiracism) and Notes sur l’extermino-complotisme et le révisionnisme (Notes on Extermino-conspiracism and Revisionism) address this accusation head-on. The first, Rémi Perron, takes the conspiracy bull by the horns, to show that it is the Holocaust exterminationists who rely on conspiracy scenarios in defiance of the evidence. In Notes sur l’extermino-complotisme, François Fradin also surveys the exterminationists’ dependence on conspiratorial fantasies, but his chief focus is on the conspiracy theories of certain revisionist writers on the supposed Holocaust.
The Führer told a series of stories from the end of the period of parliamentarianism in the years 1932/3. The most dangerous opponent, who had actually produced a number of respectable men, was undoubtedly the center. Brüning could not be regarded as a principally anti-nationalist man; his biggest mistake was that he attempted to improve the domestic situation by increasing his popularity via foreign policy successes, while the Führer had followed exactly the opposite course, recognizing that foreign policy can never be successful[71] if the prerequisites for [success] are missing. Brüning was somewhat morbid, for what healthy man voluntarily chooses a hospital for his permanent home? The greatest corruption prevailed in the parties of the center, whose politicians were all bribed and bought-off. The leading Social Democrats (Braun, Severing, Löbe) could not deny this in any way. That’s why hardly any of them have migrated from the concentration camps. Braun, too, would not have needed to flee abroad. The Führer is of the opinion that these former Social Democrats are now already convinced adherents of the Third Reich. Severing already voluntarily offered to the Führer submission of the former Social Democratic workers to the Saar Agreement and, again, to the outbreak of the war. The Führer rejected this on principle. On the other hand, the communist parliament was a meeting place for serious criminals and thieves. Torgler was already uncomfortable in the faction because he knew that he had not yet committed a burglary. The Führer then made fun of the drafting of German-national calls, which had always been characterized by bad German, and [since] the whole party faction was still drifting around, the result was simply useless. For this reason, the Führer gave a special appeal to Hugenberg. Even in the first cabinet after January 30, 1933, the German Nationalists still attempted to produce such joint appeals and proclamations until the Führer had clearly stated that he was to be the sole cabinet minister, since he was also responsible.
The size of the gas chamber is seven by seven meters. In the middle of the chamber there are shower-heads through which the gas is introduced. On one of the walls a thick pipe serves as an exhaust to remove the air. Thick felt around the doors of the chamber renders them airtight.
In this non-description of the gas chamber, the most incredible aspect, as I have noted above, is the absence of any reference to the presumed devices of metallic mesh for the introduction of Zyklon B. For years now, revisionist researchers have shown that these presumed devices are a simple literary expedient without any documentary or material basis[169]. Venezia, instead of contradicting them, at least on the level of eyewitness testimony, on this fundamental point of the story of the homicidal gassings in Crematoria II and III of Birkenau, does not even touch on the question!
According to the Holocaust historians, the Jews deported from the Warsaw Ghetto were killed en masse in Treblinka, not “deported farther east”. Since the Polish-Jewish underground press had reported since August 1942 that Treblinka was a “death camp” where all arriving Jews were steamed or poisoned with a delayed-action gas, this news notice can only mean that the “news” of the “truth” about Treblinka had not yet reached the well-informed Swedish-Jewish journal (which seems unlikely) or that its writers did not believe the wild atrocity stories and had more trustworthy information available to them.
Mark Yudof, Chair of AEN’s Advisory Board, states: “[T]he BDS strategy is also a blatant attempt to co-opt the language of human rights: Israel is a settler nation, a bastion of white privilege, a racist and apartheid state, and a perpetrator of alleged genocide.”[2] This article will analyze whether Yudof’s criticism of the BDS strategy is historically accurate.
Professor van Pelt then quotes Jewish writer Erika Apfelbaum as to why Holocaust revisionism is “so evil” and why it should be attacked and refuted. She stated:
By October 28, the German police had rounded up some 18,000 of these Polish Jews then residing within its borders and transported them to the Polish border, for them to return to Poland. But the Poles refused to allow these holders of Polish passports freedom of movement within Poland, instantly giving rise to refugee camps along the German-Polish border at several locations, most-notably at a small village known as Zbaszyn (http://tinyurl.com/2auztrt). These first concentration camps for Jews were Polish, not German. Poles imprisoned Polish Jews in Poland.
It is evident that the statement’s text was not written by Höss; his handwriting was different, as can already be seen from the way in which the word “Auschwitz” was written by him and by the unknown British hand.
Possibly influenced by the hypothesis that the Iron Blue found in the walls of the Auschwitz delousing chambers might stem from wall paint and therefore is expected to be found only on the walls’ surface, Dr Roth, the chemist who worked at Alpha Laboratories which analysed Leuchter’s specimens back in 1988, stated in a later media interview that cyanide gas would only be absorbed into the first ten micrometres or so of wall surface.[21] That could be so for stone but neither for brick nor for mortar or plaster. Were his claim valid, it would invalidate the very concept of wall-sampling to assess historical cyanide exposure. We shall here comment on ‘Roth’s hypothesis’:
So here we have “a new picture of the Nazis’ methods.” The NYT playsfast and loose with its statistics. We are told that the number of Holocaust victims was “almost six million” and that “a third or more” perished in “what historians call killing sites: thousands of villages, quarries, forests, wells, streets and homes that dot the map of Eastern Europe.” Later in the article the number involved is “an estimated 1.5 million.” Now 1.5 is one-third of 4.5. If it was more than one-third – e.g. one-half, then the total number of Holocaust dead would be 3.0 million. But even our 4.5 figure is not really almost 6. But then, as Dr. Pohl (a professor of history at Klagenfurt University) states, the gassings were just “murky rumors.”
I could have dropped the story and gone on my way, but when you write the way I write, the stories you dread most are the stories you are most obligated to pursue. My sense of things was that I had to risk friendships, even risk my family. I had to risk the contempt of my peers and the ostracism of a community and society, which would judge my doubting to be despicable. Nietzsche writes some place that we all work out of our weaknesses and I suppose that's what I did. In my anxiety and fear I decided to take on, not the gas-chamber story itself, but those who run the story as if it were their private franchise, who condemn those who question it. Those who have the power to destroy many of those they condemn.
Social delusions assume countless forms of expression, from the terrifying to the banal. The most iconic examples may be found in episodic manias centering on sorcery and witchcraft, or in the recurrence of various conspiracy theories and apocalyptic belief systems. In modern times, delusional thinking has been notoriously manifest in narratives of alien abductions and satanic ritual abuse accusations, and germs of hysteria almost certainly inform public susceptibility to a widening raft of health scares that are typically attributed to elusive environmental and industrial hazards, as extensively documented in the pages of Outbreak!. But whether one seeks to explain the emergence of cargo cults or the psychogenesis of Gulf War Syndrome or the ephemeral popularity of the latest diet craze, evidence is likely to be nested in the inchoate hopes and fears of a specific time and culture. To understand how and why irrational beliefs and behaviors take root, the historian is thus wise to adopt an interdisciplinary approach, and to proffer some measure of empathy toward those who may seem foolish or gullible by “outside” standards. “Above all,” Evans and Bartholomew stress, “we must be mindful that we are dealing with human beings living in unique, often highly complex circumstances that do not easily lend themselves to superficial analysis.”
Inconvenient History carried a review of the first edition of Thomas Dalton’s Debating the Holocaust. The second edition has now been published, and the mask is down: Dr. Dalton admits—professes, in fact—that he is, indeed, a Holocaust revisionist, much as everyone, friend and foe alike, has long presumed.
Another aspect that has to be taken into account by anyone wanting to gain an insight into the history of the camps at Auschwitz and Birkenau is the question of the reliability of the statements of the commander of the camp, Rudolf Höss. It is by now common knowledge that he was tortured by his British captors and forced to sign an outrageous confession that was originally formulated in English. This can be seen clearly from the German word Ausrottungs-Erleichterungen used in the text Höss was made to sign, which is an erroneous translation of the expression “extermination facilities” used in the English text. It reads in German as “something that makes it easier to exterminate” and would never have been used by Höss himself to describe his task. The proper German word would have been ”Ausrottungs-Einrichtungen.”
But the Nazis, we are told, adopted none of these obvious alternatives. Instead, they opted for a complex, technical, and dangerous process of mass murder in gas chambers.
How many Jews were then evacuated from the Riga ghetto on 30 November and 8 December 1941, and how many of these reached the Rumbula site? The establishment of the Riga ghetto began in early August 1941 but was not completed until the beginning of October that same year. The “Resettlement Office” in charge of organizing the resettlement of Riga’s Jews within the ghetto’s borders was informed in early August that the ghetto was to offer space for just under 30,000 people, and according to a census of the civilian administration undertaken at around the same time “approximately 27,000” were to be relocated to the ghetto, which was located in the poor district of Maskavas Vorštate south-east of the Riga central railway station, where 1,700 Jews were already residing, making for a total of some 28,700 ghetto inhabitants.[38]
That the Germans let copies of the Einsatzgruppen reports fall into the hands of the Allies is strikingly odd. They could have easily burned these few stacks of incriminating papers before the Allies conquered Germany.[6] The authenticity of the Einsatzgruppen reports has also been questioned because, like so much other “evidence” of Nazi atrocities, the documents emerged from the Soviet occupation zone.[7]
“Der Holocaust. Ein sorgfältig geplanter und ausgeführter systematischer Massenmord…”
Inmates at the Dachau Concentration Camp were subjected to medical experimentation involving malaria, high altitudes, freezing and other experiments. Such has been documented in the so-called Doctors’ Trial at Nuremberg, which opened on December 9, 1946, and ended on July 19, 1947. Also, Dr. Charles P. Larson, an American forensic pathologist, was at Dachau and conducted autopsies, interviews, and a review of the remaining medical records to determine the extent of the medical experimentation at the camp.
“Considering the possibility of further imprecisions, we can assume now as certain, that during the action from begin of September to mid of November 1941 at least 6,500 Russian POWs have been shot in Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp.”
All 33 of the adults in the village of Ležáky were also murdered when Gestapo agents found in Ležáky the transmitter of the underground radio team that had been parachuted into the Protectorate alongside Heydrich’s two assassins. The children in Ležáky were handed over to German authorities, and the village’s buildings reduced to rubble. In addition to those killed in Lidice and Ležáky, 3,188 Czechs were arrested and 1,327 were sentenced to death during the reprisals that summer. Close to 4,000 people with relatives among the exiles were rounded up and placed in concentration camps or ordinary prisons.[21]
British historian Ian Kershaw states that when the Soviet archives were opened in the early 1990s: “Predictably, a written order by Hitler for the ‘Final Solution’ was not found. The presumption that a single, explicit written order had ever been given had long been dismissed by most historians.”[4]
No mention of gas chambers or an extermination policy targeting Jews is made in this edition, leaving the reader with the impression that Marcus, one of the foremost contemporary experts on Jewish history, either did not put credence in the mass gassing allegations or was reluctant to mention said claims in print. The text quoted above was retained in the 1952 and 1956 editions of the encyclopedia.
The transports are unloaded on a side spur i/ Birkenau. Those who can walk are selected a. led to the camps all luggage is put down a. later brought to the property warehouses.
Deborah E. Lipstadt, Dorot Professor of Modern Jewish History and Holocaust Studies at Emory University (Atlanta, Georgia) and widely known for her assaults on “Holocaust denial,” has once again made headlines with the release of The Eichmann Trial. This interesting but flawed book is Lipstadt’s analysis of the issues surrounding the famous capture and trial in Israel of SS Lieutenant-Colonel Adolf Eichmann, and the dramatic effect that “Holocaust Survivor” courtroom testimony had upon world-wide opinion. April 11, 2011 marked a half century since the beginning of “this trial of the century,” and the book’s release was presumably timed to commemorate it. It has been said that The Eichmann Trial consolidates Deborah Lipstadt’s standing as one of the major figures in the present-day Jewish world.
In Leuchter’s professional view, the facilities allegedly used to gas over one million people at Auschwitz were crude, inefficient, rudimentary and unsafe.
“This book grew out of a concern about the discord between, on the one side, evocations of The Holocaust in popular culture, education and its commemoration and, on the other, the revelations by researchers in many disciplines, operating within and outside an academic framework.” (p. xxviii)
[34] Weber, Mark, “The Nuremberg Trials and the Holocaust,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 12, No. 2, Summer 1992, pp. 167-169.
But even if one wished to extend this function to Crematorium III and in May 1944, it nevertheless extraordinarily remains the case that Venezia, among the 22 windows which opened into that facade of the crematorium, claims to have gone to have a look precisely through the pair of windows of the room in question.
All along the path from the gas chambers to the graves, for several hundred meters, there were dentists equipped with pincers. They stopped the workers dragging the corpses, opened the mouths of the bodies, looked inside and pulled out the gold, which they then threw in a little chest.[55]
Ironically Eckart, the high-ranking “Satanic adept,” based his world-view on a heroic interpretation of Jesus and Germany’s Christian world mission. In an essay Bolshevism from Moses to Lenin, published posthumously in 1923, Luther is criticized for his having been influenced by Jews in his interpretation of the Old Testament and its importance in Lutheran theology.[67] Christ was never anything other than frank with Jews, taking up the theme of Houston Stewart Chamberlain et al that Jesus was a Galilean, “from the land of the gentiles.”[68] Jesus was not tolerant towards the Jews, striking them with His whip and sharply condemning the Pharisees (the rabbinate of his day) as nothing less than the sons of the devil. The NSDAP was “defending the Christian foundations of our nation without mental reservations… But we want Germanism, we want genuine Christianity, we want order and propriety…”[69] It was Paul who had distorted Christianity and brought it to the Gentiles as a subversive, weakening influence.[70] These are themes that had become increasingly widespread among German theologians and scholars during the 19th century.
But an asserted, unproven event remains just a rumor, because neither the testimonies repeated by the Soviets, nor the testimonies considered to constitute "concordance of evidence" by Desbois, has any value as proof. In practice, the good priest has simply collected a concordance of rumor.
While we are always happy to entertain new theses concerning the Second World War, the Holocaust, and East European history generally, we would prefer to see such treatments be both accurate and methodologically and conceptually sound. If the forthcoming books, however, are as deficient as this article, then the books will be both incomplete and inaccurate. We offer these remarks, therefore, in the hopes that the finished product will have greater nuance than we have seen here.
Even the New York Times recognized Leuchter’s expertise in this regard in a prominent article of October 13, 1990, and in a follow-up article on June 13, 1991 about the settlement between Leuchter and the Massachusetts Board of Registration of Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, the New York Times wrote, “was once one of the nation’s leading advisers on the administering of capital punishment.” The problem for Leuchter was that, the NYT writer stated right afterwards, that Leuchter “angered Holocaust survivors with articles in which he contended that historians had inflated the number of victims of the Nazis.”[10]
Richard Widmann has followed Robert Faurisson in warning that the immediate future for historical revisionists, especially those addressing the currently accepted and widely promoted view of ‘the Holocaust’, looks very bleak.[1]
This is the first transport of Jews deported by the Nazis from Greece to East-European occupied territory. The victims were brought to Lwow, where they were kept in a concentration camp for a few days and later transported to an unknown destination. The majority of them are men over forty years of age, including rabbis. There are also a number of women and children among them.”
I think Novick would be dismayed to see what has occurred since the publication of his concerns, much as Finkelstein also seems to have been ignored, or successfully neutralized, in developments since the times of publication of their respective broadsides. Novick’s contribution, however, deserves place of pride not only in terms of when it appeared, but further in terms of its “angle of approach,” an angle that leaves unsullied the sentiments of those who are committed to the still-regnant (large) version of the events of that “Holocaust,” a spirit, by the way, that Finkelstein’s subsequent forays leave altogether undamaged. Novick, like Finkelstein, leaves the meme of the Six Million altogether sacrosanct. Both of these sentries may have the same ultimate goal in view: that of warning zealots that the matter might be taken too far—too far, that is, to serve the interests of those promoting it, and too far to withstand the inevitable scrutiny of subsequent historical inquiry—of credibility itself.
For example, Gens. George Patton, Omar Bradley and Dwight Eisenhower toured the German concentration camp at Ohrdruf on April 12, 1945. They saw more than 3,200 naked, emaciated dead bodies flung into shallow graves, with many more dead bodies lying in the streets where they had fallen. Soon after seeing Ohrdruf, Eisenhower ordered every unit nearby that was not in the front lines to tour the camp. Eisenhower stated: “We are told that the American soldier does not know what he is fighting for. Now, at least, he will know what he is fighting against.”
Germany also used brutal measures to quash two uprisings in Poland during the war. The first uprising, today commonly called the Ghetto Uprising, occurred in the Warsaw Ghetto in April 1943. The Ghetto Uprising had no realistic chance of success, and some 40,000 civilians were either killed on the spot or deported to German concentration camps.[26]
Jean-Claude Pressac, in his first study on Auschwitz, published a photograph which shows these devices and a diagram of their layout.[30]
Dr. Green also challenges the possibility of formation of any noticeable quantities of Prussian Blue in the alleged homicidal gas chambers. Dr. Green writes:[18]
Most people today use this narrow definition and define the word “genocide” as the deliberate destruction of national, racial, religious or ethnic groups. However, Lemkin intended the word “genocide” to have a much broader meaning. Lemkin wrote: “Genocide has two phases: one, destruction of the national pattern of the oppressed group; the other, the imposition of the national pattern of the oppressor.”[3]
Welcome back dear readers for another take on the famous “Where did they go?” response of the Holocaust orthodoxy when facing revisionism. As we know, historians claim that there were certain camps like Treblinka with the sole purpose of extermination. Revisionists claim that this was not the case and that these camps were actually transit camps where prisoners were kept for a while before transferred elsewhere. So defenders of the official story keep demanding the names of Jews transited through these camps. Well, they can relax, as we aim to please.
How long did it take to kill the victims in the gas chambers? Rajchman informs us:
At the first, high-profile Holocaust trial of Revisionist publisher Ernst Zündel in Toronto in 1985, the premier Holocaust historian, the late Raul Hilberg, admitted that scientific proof for the existence of the "Hitler gas chambers" is missing. No authentic and genuine autopsy report exists to show that Jews were killed with poison gas.[6] Furthermore, no one has ever produced any photographs of Jews being gassed. Just three years later in 1988, Princeton historian Arno Mayer admitted that the evidence supporting the existence of the “Hitler gas chambers” is scant and untrustworthy. In his own words: "Sources for the study of the gas chambers are at once rare and unreliable."[7]
We did not explore the “other camps” that, on the orthodox view, accounted for some 400,000 Jewish deaths. These would presumably include such infamous places as Dachau and Buchenwald, along with lesser known camps like Mauthausen, Sachsenhausen, and Stutthof. These five camps, which had among the highest number of total deaths apart from the six ‘extermination’/transit camps, recorded a total of 194,000 deaths.[72] The percentage of Jews at these camps, however, was relatively low. Therefore they contributed little to the overall Jewish death toll.
Whether the received wisdom on an historical event can be subjected to scholarly scrutiny depends upon the method by which the subject is utilized by entrenched interests. Hence, let the scholar or student who embarks on the questioning of certain sacred cows beware lest he be damned for heresy. This essay examines a polemical technique branded ‘relativising the Holocaust’, toward the end of extending the limits of scholarly enquiry. The essay examines several examples of acceptable and unacceptable forms of revisionism from the relativist perspective.
The Deborah Lipstadts of the world must be asking themselves what in hell is going on? They've run the Holocaust show on campus and in the media for so many years they see these signs of student curiosity and principle as the outbreak of some dreadful intellectual pox. I see them as the cure to one. The Lipstadts write about the "terrible harm" such questions can do. I ask why such questioning does not measure the good health of the culture?
The gas chambers are the only brick buildings in the entire camp. Actually, they comprise two structures. At first was built—somewhat farther from the entrance—a smaller structure with three gas chambers, each about five by five meters. Sometime in the fall of 1942 the second building, containing 10 gas chambers, was completed. This building is located very close to the Pipeline, at the point where it opens into the second part of the camp. There is a hallway running all the way down the middle of the new building. One enters the gas chambers, five on either side, from this hallway. The new gas chambers measure about seven by seven meters. The motor room is built onto the back wall, where the hallway ends. The exhaust gases from the motors are pumped into the gas chambers through conduits in the ceilings of the chambers. These conduits are disguised as showers.[12]
It is requested that a statement be obtained from POOK who is now in the American zone, in order to corroborate the evidence of the chief informant Emil SEHM, who has made a statement on the lines set out below [Hill then quotes four paragraphs from Sehm’s statement][64]
“After several days, we finally reached our mysterious destination. It was Auschwitz, the most infamous of the concentration camps. Here the gas chambers were said to work day and night to keep up with the mass murdering.” (p. 100)
"[...] by the year 1996 the only European nation to lack some kind of an "anti-revisionist" law would be Denmark, a small victory for revisionism rendered moot by a European Common Market regulation that enables a citizen of one European country to sue the citizen of any other for an offense that may only be an offense in the first country. By 1996, Canada, Australia, South Africa, and Mexico would have all persecuted Holocaust revisionists by law."[18]
The following table summarizes the data relating to the first 18 Jewish transports arriving at Auschwitz from Slovakia and France[66].
Yet with his fellow Jews he will first murmur, then “the murmur becomes a scream, the cry of a community gone mad, mad with grief and lucidity” (... And the Sea Is Never Full / Memoirs 1969-, New York, Knopf, 1999, p. 193; original French version: … et la mer n’est pas remplie / Mémoires 2,Paris, Seuil, 1996, p. 291).[1] Further on he repeats: “I forbid myself to imagine what happened inside the gas chambers; my gaze follows the living people who enter them to die of suffocation only as far as the entrance” (p. 356). Here we are, immersed in pathos. In La Nuit there is no mention of the “gas chambers”; E. Wiesel tells us that at Auschwitz as at Buchenwald it was outdoors, in infernal flames, that the Germans exterminated the Jews. In the German translation of his book, the “gas chambers” burst onto the scene: in fifteen instances, the translator has put gas where the author had not (see “Un grand faux témoin (suite): Elie Wiesel”, either in my Ecrits révisionnistes (1974-1998), p. 1526-1529 or on my blog at http://robertfaurisson.blogspot.com/1993/06/un-grand-faux-temoin-elie-wiesel-suite.html).
It is universally admitted that none of the three Reinhardt camps had crematoria. According to Holocaust historians, the bodies of gassed Jews were first buried in mass graves, then in 1943 they were exhumed and burned in the open air. This fact alone is sufficient to make the official version highly improbable. All “normal” concentration camps, such as Dachau and Buchenwald, for which no mass killings are claimed, had crematoria, so why wouldn’t the German’s have built crematoria at the “extermination camps” where they would have been a hundred times more necessary?
That leaves other prisoners as the possible source. But who exactly? He does not say. Only later when he describes two uprisings at the camp he writes that the narrative comes from a “personal acquaintance” working in the crematories who survived and conveyed the information to him (p. 66). And again, the information is wrong, as he claims that during the Sonderkommando revolt of October 7, 1944, Crematoria II and III were set on fire, when in fact it was Crematorium IV. So we have wrong information from an unknown source. And that’s all there is to it.
It has been a long road, this quest for the truth. We are becoming weary; our attention is flagging. But we must press on—the (retrospective) fates of 6 million hang in the balance. Only one more step to take, the last and the largest: Auschwitz.
Fatalities at Oak Ridge, where the admittees were overwhelmingly young and fit, could easily be interred in the elevated, well-drained landscape surrounding the installation in the few cases where the bodies weren’t shipped back where they had come from. At Auschwitz, located in low-lying terrain from which the water supply was drawn, the imperative to cremate the numerous victims of disease was absolute. Capacity to ship the thousands of diseased corpses was also obviously lacking, along with destinations where they might be received. The crematoria at Auschwitz were fully occupied disposing of corpses in a manner that protected the living.
“During the spring and summer of 1944, when the Jews of Hungary, France and Belgium were being annihilated in mass, the crematories worked at full capacity. The furnaces alone were insufficient to burn such a large quantity of people. There were 100’s of thousands who were gassed to death, and the Germans forced prisoners to dig large holes alongside the crematories. This is where the leftover corpses were burned. Many times they actually threw live babies into the pyres! During this time, the number of burned corpses rose to 25,000 a day. This lasted until the end of the summer of 1944. After this operation was completed, they concealed the pits. The number of burned corpses never went lower than 5,000 a day. In this way, more than 1,500,000 human beings disappeared in the crematories of Auschwitz, and this was only one of the concentration camps.”
And this is revelatory in more ways than one. For it perhaps serves not only as an overview regarding studies of the Kabbala, but the journey Elie will be describing regarding his experiences of the Jewish Holocaust; descriptions where “mystical” truth often becomes the touchstone of what he is striving for. The “gate” would be his personal experience, the “orchard,” the actual events themselves. If what is now being said about Elie is true, that he assumed the identity of another person, that he is not the person he pretends to be, then woe to him, for he has broken with the advice given by his own master, creating great danger for himself as well as for others.
“In order to erase the traces of their bloody crimes the camp administration set up four mobile crematoria ovens which were mounted on trailers [smontirowannyje na awtopritsepach]. The chief of the mobile crematorium was Hauptscharführer Klein under whose supervision the corpses of prisoners who had been shot, hanged or tortured to death were incinerated.”
The Jews listed in the table above resided in towns and cities all over Poland. If the information in the entries is correct, this would imply that transports went to the Baltic states from more than one of the "extermination camps". The many entries relating to Warthegau Jews (Łódź, Slupca, Lututow, Ozorków, Leczyca (Lentschütz) point to transports from Chełmno. As seen above (3.3.1. and 3.3.19.) the witnesses Kruk and Tory confirm that Jews were deported from Łódź to Lithuania (and transferred from there to Latvia). Sosnoviec, Tarnowskie Gory, Zambrow[161] and Będzin point to Auschwitz, whereas Warsaw, Rembertow, Siedliszcze indicate transports from Treblinka. Lwów, Kolomea, Myslenice and Przemysl[162] clearly point to Bełżec.
Tauber said in his deposition: “Generally speaking, we burned four or five corpses at a time in one muffle, but sometimes we charged a greater number of corpses. It was possible to charge up to eight ‘muselmanns’ [Camp slang for emaciated inmates]. Such big charges were incinerated without the knowledge of the head of the crematorium during air-raid warnings in order to attract the attention of airmen by having a bigger fire emerging from the chimney. We imagined that in that way it might be possible to change our fate.”[3]
Q. Did Sehm tell you what was the evidence given before this court?
At the same time (fall 1941), the “euthanasia” actions had already been carried out in Germany as well as in some occupied countries such as Poland and the Baltic states. It appears that the German authorities (Hitler, Himmler) had decided to extend the euthanasia also to the occupied Soviet territories, and their decision was certainly assisted by the fact that the mental hospitals in Russia had partly been left without food supplies, and some of the staff had fled. Himmler was obviously not willing to cater for Soviet mental patients. Thus, the Einsatzgruppen of the SiPO (Sicherheitspolizei) and the SD (Sicherheitsdienst) were, additionally to their main task of fighting the partisans, assigned with a further task: to dispose of the mentally ill. For the respective German task forces (Einsatzgruppen) this meant a considerable psychological stress, because they had to conduct the executions. Himmler, who had observed on his visit in Minsk (15 Aug. 1941) a mass execution of partisans, had come to the conviction, too, that a more humane method of killing was desirable. He talked about that matter with two of his Generals, Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski[20] and Arthur Nebe[21]. Himmler assigned Nebe to examine the issue of painless killing and send him a report. Nebe obviously shared Himmler's opinion, and reportedly he stated: “I cannot possibly ask German soldiers to shoot the mentally ill!”
Normal and accepted standards of scholarship, including the proper use of evidence, are discarded by mainstream Holocaust researchers.
Lipstadt denies that the Gypsies suffered a Holocaust, and even accuses them of collaboration:
Niemöller was also a strong critic of the Allied-run postwar war-crimes trials in Germany. Along with four other leading German clergymen, Niemöller sent a long letter to U.S. Gen. Lucius Clay denouncing the International Military Tribunal (IMT). The signatories argued that the defense attorneys had been hobbled at the IMT, witnesses had been “interrogated under the duress of extradition to Eastern states,” international law was being applied only to the vanquished, and there was no court of appeal. Niemöller also vigorously protested the unfairness of other American-run postwar trials in Germany.[27]
Gradually, certain historians developed reservations about the story of Karski’s visit to Belzec. The camp, after all, was supposed to have been a killing center equipped with homicidal gas chambers. All Jews sent there were supposed to have been killed in those chambers, less a few who were kept alive to work in the camp. And transports of Jews were certainly not supposed to have departed Belzec, whose status as an extermination camp was to be proved by the fact that transports of Jews continually arrived at, but never departed, the camp.
„Zuletzt lehnte das Gericht alle Anträge mit der lapidaren – und für einige Antifaschisten im Publikum schockierenden – Begründung ab, dass es völlig unerheblich sei, ob der Holocaust stattgefunden habe oder nicht. Seine Leugnung stehe in Deutschland unter Strafe. Und nur das zähle vor Gericht. ‚Die Demokratie muss das aushalten können‘, dozierte ein Jurastudent später im Foyer des Gerichtsgebäudes.“
On voit bien ici que l’hystérie de l’holocauste mène à la perte de tout sens commun: on n’a rien vu, et d’ailleurs on n’était même pas né à l’époque des faits mais on témoigne quand même et cette manière de procéder est acceptée par les historiens.
Smith's Break His Bones: The Private Life of a Holocaust Revisionist, is a witty and thoughtful 315-page memoir published in 2002 that looks back on the challenges, disappointments and triumphs of his years-long battle against taboo and censorship. Break His Bones details the organized campaign to suppress free speech and intellectual freedom on the Holocaust issue, showing how skeptics are blacklisted, and their works banned. Smith provided a human face for the much-maligned “Holocaust deniers.” “It might be said,” he wrote, that Break His Bones “is an exercise revealing the subjective life of a thought criminal.”
Revisionists are well aware of the fact that orthodox historians avoid discussing Holocaust denial. But there are exceptions. Today we will take a look at the most recent: The book Holocaust and Genocide Denial: A Contextual Perspective, edited by Paul Behrens, Nicholas Terry and Olaf Jensen.
Ostensibly as a result of concerns expressed by the suing civil parties, the Court precluded any presentation of evidence by the defense contesting the existence of homicidal gas chambers by taking “official notice of their existence,” based upon the asseverations of former concentration-camp survivors and prior precedents established by the Swiss Supreme Court.
Meanwhile the NYT continued to report on the alleged gassing atrocities. For example, it reported statements by one Colonel Jaworski that “Jews had been ‘ruthlessly wiped out’ by hanging and firing squad and gas chambers at Dachau. Frequently they were paraded into a gas chamber, told to strip for shower and then left to die when the gas was turned on” (21 October, p. 11)—as if the gas chamber were like some household oven.
[29] Veneziz, Shlomo, Inside the Gas Chambers: Eight Months in the Sonderkommando of Auschwitz, Malden, Mass.: Polity Press, 2009, p. 69.
Israeli historian Tom Segev explains why the Holocaust story is so important to Israel:[5]
What about intentionality? On the traditional view, Hitler and the top Nazis desperately wanted to kill every Jew they could lay their hands on. Aronsfeld (1985: 49), for example, states that “the German Nazi plan to murder every single Jew they could is beyond doubt.” In fact, it is often claimed that the Germans put this objective above all others, even to the detriment of the defense of their country against invasion. As evidence, Holocaust fundamentalists cite various anti-Jewish statements by Hitler, Goebbels, and other Germans. But most such statements, including nearly all those by the leading Nazis, are highly ambiguous—as we will see. What is certain is that Hitler and others wanted to remove the Jews from Germany and the greater Reich. But it is far less clear that they wanted them killed.
Manne especially condemned the role of the Office of Special Investigations (an arm of the US Department of Justice): ‘If the reputation of the Israeli court has been tarnished by the Demjanjuk affair, the reputation of the OSI has been shattered. Since Sheftel uncovered the crucial Soviet depositions that revealed Ivan the Terrible’s identity, it has been discovered by Demjanjuk’s friends in the US that a considerable amount of this very evidence had been in the possession of the OSI since the late 1970s! It now seems clear that the OSI deliberately withheld this evidence from the Israelis… To have concealed evidence which might have saved Demjanjuk from the gallows and the Israelis from a major act of injustice is no small matter.’
The man in the Kremlin, who was responsible for millions of deaths in the GULAG and who had his propagandist Ilya Ehrenburg claim 4 million victims of Auschwitz before the Red Army had even entered that camp, was apparently not sufficiently impressed by the Sachsenhausen death toll. For this reason, the figure of 19,900 (or slightly more) victims never appeared in Soviet propaganda. Instead the number of 100,000 first appeared in October 1945 in a letter Professor I. P. Traynin, a member of the ESC, wrote to Foreign Minister V. Molotov. The letter begins abruptly as follows[4]:
At the beginning of June, Bauabschnitt III, although it was still uninhabitable, was transformed (together with part of camp BIIc and part of BIIa and camp BIIe) into “Durchgangslager” (transit camps) for able-bodied unregistered Jews intended for transfer to other camps. On 2 June, Kammler ordered Jothann to make 14 barracks of the Bauabschnitt III available to house these Jews[147]. The first Jewish transport was sent there on 9 June. On 16 June, there were already 7,000 Jews there[148]. No fewer than 98,600 Jews passed through the Birkenau transit camp[149].
Some of the material she placed in Launceston letter-boxes included The Inadvertent Confession of a Jew, The Jewish Khazar Kingdom, Russian Jews Control Pornography, The Most Debated Question of our Time – Was There Really a Holocaust?, and an untitled excerpt on which was written in longhand: “The white Christian nations are the true seed of Israel. ‘The synagogue of Satan’ – who say they are Judean – but are lying frauds, are trying to force the white race to mongrelize.” There was also a document entitled “MFP – What Are Japan’s Motives?”, in which Scully had underlined the names of three individuals mentioned in the article, including that of Mr. David Rockefeller of Chase Manhattan Bank, and written in the margin next to their names “3 Jews”. On a photograph of Rockefeller she had written “Jew” across his forehead.[93]
Starting in mid-May, the entire camp was disinfested in the disinfestation facility of Camp BIb (the disinfestation gas chamber of BW 5a), as SS-Untersturmführer Johann Schwarzhuber wrote to the camp command on 22 July.[37] But the sanitary situation was not yet under control, because, at the beginning of July, two SS men doing service in the Gypsy camp and in Camp BIb also contracted petechial fever.[38]
Fig. 2: “Three liberated prisoners of the Yanov concentration camp beside the bone mill in which the remaining parts of skeletons of burned corpses were crushed” (Caption translated from the German text published in Sowjetunion heute).
“Leuchter was unaware of a host of documents pertaining to the installation and construction of the gas chambers and crematoria. He did not know of a report filed in June 1943 by the Waffen-SS commandant of construction at Auschwitz on the completion of the crematoria. The report indicated that the five crematoria had a total twenty-four-hour capacity of 4,756 bodies. Leuchter had stated that the crematoria had a total capacity of 156 bodies in the same period of time. Even if the SS’s calculation was overly ‘optimistic,’ the difference between it and Leuchter’s was staggering.” (pp. 187)
The Holocaust is used to silence critics of Israel in what the Jewish scholar, Marc Ellis, has called the ecumenical deal: you Christians look the other way while we bludgeon the Palestinians and build our Jewish state and we won't remind you that Hitler was a good Catholic, a confirmed “soldier of Christ,” long before he was a bad Nazi.
For decades, the Israeli Holocaust Remembrance Museum Yad Vashem has been collecting names of those who allegedly died in the Jewish Holocaust of World War II. One of the earliest critics of that enterprise has been the U.S. revisionist Arthur R. Butz, who wrote in his 1976 book The Hoax of the Twentieth Century:[1]
Bis zum Ende des Krieges war Bergen-Belsen kein Todeslager, wo Deutsche absichtlich Gefangene verhungern ließen und ermordeten. Tatsächlich wurde es ursprünglich als Erholungslager bezeichnet, bzw. als Krankenlager, wo kranke Häftlinge hingeschickt wurden, um ihre Gesundheit zu verbessern. Bis zu den letzten Kriegstagen war dies kein so schrecklicher Ort, und es gibt Beweise, die dies untermauern. Rose Kahn, eine ungarische Jüdin, wurde im Sommer 1944 von Auschwitz nach Bergen-Belsen transportiert. Bevor Auschwitz aufgegeben und Bergen-Belsen stark überfüllt wurde, beschreibt sie Bergen-Belsen als keinen so schrecklichen Ort:
If glasnost proceeds and if the whole truth about the Lenin and Stalin eras comes to light, educated opinion in the West will be forced to reassess some of its most deeply cherished views. On a minor note, Stalinist sympathizers like Lillian Hellman, Frieda Kirchwey, and Owen Lattimore will perhaps not be lionized quite as much as before. More important, there will have to be a reevaluation of what it meant for the British and American governments to have befriended Soviet Russia in the Second World War and heaped fulsome praise on its leader. That war will inevitably lose some of its glory as the pristinely pure crusade led by the larger-than-life heroes Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Inevitably, too, comparisons with what is commonly known as the Holocaust will emerge.
Since Judge Matia effectively sealed John Demjanjuk’s fate, I would like to ask him this pointed question. Since we cannot determine how many “gas chambers” there were, nor their dimensions and capacities; what the exact death gas really was; what type of engine was used to generate the death gas; what the chambers were made of; where these structures were located; how long it took for the victims to be asphyxiated; how the corpses were removed from the chambers; how the bodies were buried in a lake-like area; what substance was used to burn the bodies; how the millions of unburned bones and teeth were disposed of; and how many were killed: how then can Judge Matia rule with any confidence that John Demjanjuk “contributed to the process by which thousands of Jews were murdered?”
The debate was a disaster for the traditional view of the Holocaust. Weber made Holocaust revisionism look too good and Lipstadt’s Holocaust ideology severely deficient. Evidence that this is the case is suggested by the fact that some years after the debate Shermer wrote:14
The foregoing outlines a series of developments culminating possibly in full-blown fanaticism, understandably and perversely arising from the motive of revenge against those who commit ritual defamation in a treacherous defense of some ideology or program of propaganda. But compounding the dynamic and motivation of revenge just described is a further dimension of reaction that, while possibly less calculated or willful, is fully as potent in leading the defamed party to a course of action precisely opposite to the desired reaction of “standing down,” or even recanting, as some Holocaust revisionists have done under various forms of duress or enticement. This amplifying consequence of ritual defamation, which is entirely consistent with the defamer’s frequent desire to actually harm his victim, I call “relegation.” It consists of the denial of the defamed party’s alternatives to (continuing with the illustrative case) public behaviors which got him defamed in the first place, including, particularly, whatever profession (likely one involving some level of public visibility) the target may have been a member of, or preparing to be a member of.
”Concurrently with the annihilation of the Englishmen in the Sachsenhausen camp, other prisoners of war were liquidated as well. The commission ascertained that in September/October 1941 14,000 Soviet prisoners of war were shot.”
It is now the eve of Rosh Hashanah, the end of summer, the last day of the Jewish year. Everyone is given thick soup but no one touches it. You would think Elie and his fellow prisoners are starving, and at other times they are, or he says they are, but this time they are willing to forgo their meal until after prayers. Thousands of Jews gather silently in the place of assembly, the same place as the hangings, to pray. Unlike the Jews of Exodus who felt obliged to ask Pharaoh to let them leave Egypt so they could worship their god elsewhere, these Jews ask nothing but to gather and pray uninhibited and unharmed. We are told there are the usual ten thousand, to include the heads of blocks, Kapos, the “functionaries of death.” And they are there to “Bless the Eternal…” But Elie questions this blessing. Why should he bless the Eternal who “had had thousands of children burned in His pits” (my underscore), who “kept six crematories working day and night, on Sundays and feast days,” and who “created Auschwitz, Birkenau, Buna, and so many factories of death?” Elie tells God He has betrayed these people, allowing them to be tortured, butchered, gassed and burned when previously He took action with Adam and Eve, Noah’s generation, and the city of Sodom. And while Elie reviles the fact the assembly is praying to God despite these things, he does not allow himself to ponder why God would indeed act in those biblical instances, yet not here and now. Still, the reader must wonder, as might any person who does not feel God is God for him alone, a personal god for a chosen people. For Elie, however, if God is not doing the Jews’ bidding then God is no longer God but something less to where, feeling stronger than the Almighty, Elie is now the accuser and God the accused. And this is curiously reminiscent of that passage in Exodus where Moses tells God to turn from His wrath against the people of Israel and repent of evil.[12] More than “chutzpa,” it is blasphemy, the unbridled arrogance of a Rashkolnikov who presumes everything and becomes something less.
[5] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 158.
The Germans’ extermination of the Jews is infamous precisely for the gas chambers and the so-called assembly-line killing. Yet whatever such death factories’ existential horror and significance, these installations were not essential for mass murder. This is so obvious it is astonishing that the gas chambers have been turned into the horror’s central aspect, to the longtime neglect and exclusion of so much else (particularly the perpetrators and the victims), as if the gas chambers and technology themselves caused the killing instead of being the incidental implements of people who wanted to kill. Modern technology was unnecessary and the Germans knew this. They killed their victims overwhelmingly without gassing.…[28]
Within the framework of the “Special Measures for the Improvement of the Hygienic Facilities” mentioned above, on 17 May 1943, Kammler ordered the transformation of Bauabschnitt III (construction section III) of Birkenau camp into an inmate hospital.
Tauber, by contrast, indicates the dimensions of the fat recovery pit: m 2 x 2 x 4 in depth.[12] Romanov, who quotes the related passage, observes that it “could not have been 4 meters deep due to the high water table,” which, according to him, at the time, permitted the digging of pits [only] 2-3 meters in depth, a claim that is debatable, to say the least.[13] For the moment I shall limit myself to noting that the diagram of the Zentralbauleitung no. 2534/2 dated 15 June 1943 relating to the provisional decantation installation (“Provisorische Erdbecken") of Bauabschnitt III (Construction Sector III) at Birkenau shows that the water table was at a height of 232.51 meters, the surface of the ground at 233.71 meters and the bottom of the decantation basin at 231.01 meters.[14] Therefore, the water table was 1.20 meters below the surface of the ground and the collection basins were 2.70 meters deep.[15] It is obvious that it would not have made any sense to dig collection basins 2.70 meters deep if the water table had been shallower. On the other hand, we know that on 2 June 1944 (in the midst of the alleged cremation pit operation) Bauabschnitt III was still swampy (sumpfig), so much so that 14 barracks that had been built there could not be lived in for fear of contamination of the water table,[16] which confirms the depth stated above: 1.2 meters.
“On my return to Birkenau I’d been placed in the ‘Wascherei’ crew – in the washhouse. My duty was to hang out linen to dry after washing. The washhouse was situated in the south-western corner of the men’s camp, and watching over the drying linen I could see the adjacent grove. There, hidden behind the trees, I could make out silhouettes of people and the outline of a building. Black puffs of smoke – sometimes with bright tongues of fire – rose from this wooded area behind the camp day and night, dissipating in the air or settling on the ground as a grey coating. We nicknamed this place where pyres were burning the ‘Secret Village’ or ‘Secret Grove’.”
“[…] a threat to all who believe in the ultimate power of reason. It repudiates reasoned discussion […] it is an irrational animus […] Holocaust denial is the apotheosis of irrationalism.” – unquote (p. 23)
In Weber’s view, the convocation of the conference itself served to “confirm the tremendous importance of the “Holocaust” story for Jewish-Zionist interests,” and underscored their “inability…to respond to revisionist evidence and arguments with compelling evidence of their own.”[36 ]
Van Pelt himself says, however, that with the exception of Höss, no one in the camp had been able to gather sufficient aggregate data to establish a credible figure for the number of victims, and his uncritical attitude with respect to Höss’s confession therefore becomes hard to accept. A key witness such as Höss would certainly have warranted the pages of detailed exculpation van Pelt devotes to the Polish judge Jan Sehn who was overly quick, in those early days after the war, to draw his conclusions from various German terms involving the word “Sonder…” and who made a number of nonsensical or inexplicable statements that van Pelt presents in his text. The author recognizes some of them as incredible and says so (cremation capacity figures); others he simply lets stand as they are, the preheating of the morgue by portable coke braziers, for example, or the air being “pumped out” of the gas chambers before the Zyklon B pellets were thrown in.
Perversions of this kind are by no means unknown in other areas, and in processes other than ritual defamation. In fact, it is punishment for belief, or the expression of belief, that leads to the “recidivism” of which the Rudolf case is but one of many going back through history at least to Martin Luther. The perpetual stigmatization by employers, often in compliance with governmental regulations, of ordinary criminals who have served their terms in prison relegates those who, as the phrase goes, “have paid their debt to society” to ways of making a living that are open to ex-convicts—that is, crime. So also with “thought crimes” such as Holocaust revisionism, with the exception of the fact that expounding analyses of the evidence for the Holocaust is for most of us less profitable than, say, robbing a bank. But if you are denied your intended career in, say, chemistry as in Rudolf’s case, or journalism as in the case of the late commentator Joseph Sobran, you are as good as confined to the very sphere of activity from which your malefactors obviously intended to dissuade you in the first place, especially if you regard its continuation as an ennobling duty rather than a degrading necessity.
We note here that the number of Jews held in the Minsk Sonderghetto according to Botvinnik does not fit the notion, embraced by Western Holocaust historians, that the only Western Jews to actually reach the ghetto were the 7-8,000 Reich Jews from the initial transports in November 1941 (cf. §3.3.10).
So much for Dr. Roth’s objectivity. Chemists defending the orthodox Holocaust narrative have not explained why the walls of the delousing facilities at Auschwitz-Birkenau are permeated all the way through with Prussian blue, while nothing of this sort can be observed in any of the alleged homicidal gas chambers. The only conceivable explanation is that Zyklon B was never used in the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. Nicholas Kollerstrom writes, “…for any alleged human gas chamber found in a German World War II labour camp let us merely measure cyanide in the walls: if it’s not there, it didn’t happen.”[11]
We have no documentary evidence for the number of people killed in connection with the liquidation of the ghetto. The last communication which allows for a conclusion in this respect derives from April 1943. In a review presented by the Government head inspector [Regierungsoberinspektor] Moos of the Labor department [Arbeitsamt] of the city of Minsk[38] it was reported that 'according to [the number of] issued identification cards' 8,500 Jewish laborers had been registered. Since at the July Aktion in 1942 all Jews unfit for work had been killed, the 8,500 laborers mentioned by Moos corresponded to the total number of Jews living in Minsk.”[39]
The thousands of real holocausts produced at Oak Ridge during and since the war remain at this time consigned to the future.
Historian Tomaz Jardim writes that “Mauthausen had the infamous distinction of containing the last gas chamber to function during the Second World War.”[8] However, even many Jewish historians have acknowledged that Mauthausen never had a homicidal gas chamber.[9]
[22] Stäglich, Wilhelm, Auschwitz: A Judge Looks at the Evidence, Institute for Historical Review, 1990, p. 31.
In an English letter (Text E) he describes his position as an "U.S. War Department Attorney". According to his Personnel File he had one assistant and one secretary at his disposal. His job was the collection of evidence against the accused (mostly SS personnel from the former concentration camps), the interrogation of former camp inmates as witnesses and preparation of the trial. In Pinter's words, he had “to investigate the former officers and employees of the camp and – as far as this was possible – to release them” (Text D). This formulation is remarkable, since most of his colleagues had quite another conception – namely to bring as many as possible of the accused to the gallows. A typical representative of this mentality was the Chief Prosecutor in the three Dachau Main Trials (Dachau, Mauthausen and Buchenwald Trials), Lt. Colonel William D. Denson.
Gerlach suggests – based exclusively on testimonial evidence – that plans for the installation of a homicidal gas chamber in the Mogilev camp were hatched following Himmler’s (documented) visit to Mogilev on 23-25 October 1941. He goes on to write:
Plato established in his Gorgias, that when engaging in an argument it is most important to initially define your terms in a precise manner.[2] While the general public unconsciously assumes they understand the terms "Holocaust denial" and "anti-Semitism" and their relationship, the truth is likely far from those carefully planted assumptions.
Rassinier also details the alarming death rate at Buchenwald due to "… bad treatment, the poor and insufficient food, the superhuman workload, the lack of medicines, and ... pneumonia."[5] It was in the period following the publication of his earliest works that he realized that many of the war-time stories other inmates were telling were popular but execrable exaggerations. Rassinier wrote,
The other point where Weiss is talking nonsense is when he speaks about the lungs of the victims bursting from the gas, with a loud clamoring noise being heard three minutes after the gas had been fed into the chambers. He seems to imagine the lungs of the victims ballooning and eventually reaching the limits of the constraining power of the rib-cage. Sixty years on, the toxic effects of hydrocyanic acid should be clear to all concerned, and this statement alone should have convinced an intelligent person like van Pelt that the witness, at best, is reporting (false) hear-say but cannot himself be taken seriously.
He wrote many articles, and several books. The first, Confessions of a Holocaust Revisionist, was praised by Canadian journalist Doug Collins as “fascinating” and as an “amusing walk through the valley of the shadow of doubt.”
Dies würde bedeuten, dass im Holocaust 14 Millionen Nichtjuden gestorben sind, nicht bloß fünf.
Next in line was the Sobibór Camp, which was the focus of much larger explorations than those conducted at Bełżec. The investigations started in 2000 and extended well into the year 2014 and probably even beyond that. Unlike Bełżec, the researchers involved did not merely undertake core sample drillings, but they actually excavated several areas suspected to contain remnants of former camp structures: fence poles, buildings, mass graves and cremation pits.[4] In the summer of 2014, a structure was discovered which the researchers involved believe to have been the claimed homicidal gas chamber.[5] Until late 2016, the website dedicated to the Sobibór memorial had a 2014 news item posted announcing the impending publication of the research result.[6] When I approached them via email in late November 2016 asking whether that publication had yet appeared, and if so, where it could be found, instead of receiving an answer, the announcement was quietly removed. A revisionist critique of the findings at Sobibór was published in 2013, which of course does not address the claimed gas-chamber find.[7]
Our first division of the data concerns wall samples taken from what are agreed by all sides to have been innocuous delousing chambers in the Auschwitz-Birkenau hygiene buildings BW 5a and BW 5b (BW standing for Bauwerk = building). Erected in 1941 as a preventive measure against the outbreak of typhus in this German wartime camp, they exposed clothing and bedding to something around a thousand parts per million of cyanide gas for several hours.[32] They were designed to be used in conjunction with Zyklon B. The type used at Auschwitz consisted of highly porous gypsum granules soaked with liquid hydrogen cyanide.[33] The liquid boiled at 25.7°C, so slight warming was recommended to accelerate the evaporation of the compound, although it was not required due to the high vapour pressure of HCN even at low temperatures.
There is a large building with a wide smokestack with 15 (fifteen) furnaces. Underneath a garden there are two large underground vast chambers. The one is used to undress and the other chamber of death where the people enter naked and after it’s full with about 3,000 persons it is closed and they gas them, they give up the spirit.
It is worth noting in this context that according to Reuben Ainsztein German as well as Belgian, Dutch and Yugoslavian Jews were detained in the Janow/Janovska labor camp near Lvov.[76] Did this camp serve as a second transit station for Jews being routed from Auschwitz and other “extermination camps” to the Occupied Eastern Territories? Belgian revisionist Jean-Marie Boisdefeu has also collected a number of indicia pointing to the anomalous presence of Belgian and French Jews in Eastern Galicia.[77]
The main problem is that nothing is known about these architectural alterations. The only reference to them, which is not mentioned by Pressac, and which is rather enigmatic, appears in a letter of the Topf Company to the Central Construction Office of May 8, 1942, which has as a reference, “Intake and exhaust system for the crematorium to be built in the KL Auschwitz” (Be- und Entlüftungsanlage für das zu errichtende Krematorium im K.L. Auschwitz):[11]
Himmler’s reaction to the situation in Auschwitz is not known but may be inferred from the fact that his subordinate Richard Glücks demanded only five days later, on July 23, that Höss put the entire Auschwitz Camp on a total camp lockdown.[17] Thus, Auschwitz, at that time a death camp quite literally, had been quarantined.
“Under direct German administration the removal of German, Austrian and Czech Jews, including many of those in Theresienstadt, was largely completed by August 1943. Most of these were murdered at Auschwitz. Repeatedly, the Jews remaining in Polish and Soviet territories occupied by Germany were sorted according to skill or ability to work. Large numbers were killed in the process and the rest were gradually moved to camps. Most of the ghettos were dissolved.” (p. 102)
Thies Christopherson, Die Auschwitz-Lüge (The Auschwitz Lie)
Gilbert points out that in the latter part of 1944, Berlin issued a statement denouncing at least some of the reports about the deportations to Auschwitz, claiming they were “false from beginning to end.”[57] Gilbert is unclear on exactly what the Germans were claiming to be false.
“The deniers understand how to gain respectability for outrageous and absolutely false ideas. […] Professor X publishes a theory despite the fact that reams of documented information contradict his conclusions. In the ‘highest moral tones’ he expresses his disregard for all evidence that sheds doubt on his findings. He engages in ad hominem attacks on those who have authored the critical works in this field and on the people silly enough to believe them. The scholars who have come under attack by this professor are provoked to respond. Before long he has become ‘the controversial Prof. X’ and his theory is discussed seriously by nonprofessionals, that is, journalists. He soon becomes a familiar figure on television and radio, where he ‘explains’ his ideas to interviewers who cannot challenge him or demonstrate the fallaciousness of his argument.” (pp. 31f.)
This last item noted that none of Zentai’s accusers was alive and that there were doubts about the ‘communist-controlled’ courts of Budapest. An important statement was included by Mark Ierace, a former prosecutor at the UN International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Ierace said: ‘It seems the Australian Government’s attitude in the Zentai case, to extradite regardless of the human rights issue of a fair trial, is prompted by a fear of being seen internationally as soft on suspected war criminals. If so, this is quite misguided….. It seems the only evidence against him were the confessions of two men tried in the 1950’s for the crime, in which they named Mr Zentai as a co-offender. Both men resiled from their confessions, claiming they had been extracted under torture. The police station where they were questioned was notorious at the time for such practices….. Any trial in Hungary, or anywhere else in the Western world for that matter, would have been a sham.’
The Doctors’ Trial at Nuremberg, which opened on Dec. 9, 1946 and ended on July 19, 1947, tried German doctors for their participation in the euthanasia program. Dr. Karl Brandt readily admitted his involvement in the euthanasia program, since too many records and affidavits directly linked him to the killing operation. Brandt argued that the only rationale for the euthanasia program had been to free handicapped and incurably ill patients from suffering. Brandt considered his involvement in the euthanasia program authorized by Hitler to be absolutely legal.[7]
As soon as a given area had been reconquered by the Red Army, the local commission set to work. Apart from ascertaining the extent of the war damage and the war crimes imputed to the Germans, the commissions had the additional task to identify the parties to be blamed, i. e. members of the Wehrmacht, the SS and the Einsatzgruppen of the SD. Another prime target were the ”accomplices of the henchmen“ – local residents (styled “Soviet citizens”) who had in one way or another collaborated with the occupiers. At least one of these reports - the one about Katyn (in which the perpetrators were the Soviets themselves) - was translated into English and diffused in the USA and Britain. During the Nuremberg trial, more than 500 ESC reports were submitted to the court as incriminating evidence. After the collapse of the communist system in the USSR, the microfilms of numerous secondary ESC documents (interrogation protocols, eyewitness testimony, etc.) were acquired by various archives in the West. Since the end of the Second World War, the material of the ESC has profoundly influenced the acceptable view of the “Nazi crimes” in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. Both in the East and in the West, numerous historians have uncritically regarded these documents as a credible historical source, while others have always viewed them with considerable skepticism.
The alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau, and Majdanek could not have been used as homicidal gas chambers. The first scholar to make that observation was Dr. Robert Faurisson in the late 1970s.[20] He induced the American expert for execution technologies Fred Leuchter to come to similar conclusions in a 1988 study.[21] Leuchter’s research has since been revised, deepened and broadened by a number of subsequent technical studies coming to similar conclusions.[22]
The most specific reconstruction of the alleged event was supplied by Danuta Czech in her Auschwitz “Kalendarium.”[47 ]
This witness can be considered mostly credible with regard to events he personally experienced, as it agrees with solidly documented facts, while unverified rumors he received from others are clearly false, in particular when it comes to the alleged gas chambers and the claimed equipment and operation of the crematoria.
Recent campaigns to throttle the free exchange of ideas come only months after the outrage expressed by hundreds of thousands following the 7 January 2015 massacre at the offices of the French leftist newspaper Charlie Hebdo. More than 40 world leaders showed up to demonstrate their support presumably for free speech and the free exchange of ideas. Thousands created signs emblazoned with the slogan “Je suis Charlie” (“I am Charlie”).[5] However, many of the leaders who participated in the march were leaders of countries that openly prosecute authors whose ideas are inconvenient for those in power. Specifically the so-called “denial,” or revision, of the history of the Holocaust is illegal in 14 European nations including France and Germany.[6]
The origins of Birkenau camp, which precisely matched the initial purposes of the Lublin camp, form part of this context as well. This was planned on 30 October 1941, also for 125,000 prisoners, for whom 174 housing barracks were planned (Gefangenenunterkunftbaracken), each of them capable of housing a maximum number of 744 persons[37], but the pertinent construction order from Kammler was also scheduled for reporting on 1 November:
Another example of false Jewish testimony of the Holocaust story occurred in the case of Frank Walus, who was a retired Chicago factory worker charged with killing Jews in his native Poland during the war. An accusation by Simon Wiesenthal that Walus had worked for the Gestapo prompted the U.S. government’s legal action. Eleven Jews testified under oath during the trial that Walus had murdered Jews during the war. After a costly four-year legal battle, Walus was finally able to prove that he had spent the war years as a teenager working on German farms. An American Bar Association article published in 1981 concluded regarding Walus’s trial that “…in an atmosphere of hatred and loathing verging on hysteria, the government persecuted an innocent man.”[26]
“All democracies have a base, a foundation. For France this is 1789. For the USA it is the Declaration of Independence. For Spain it is the Civil War. Well, for Germany it is Auschwitz. It can only be Auschwitz. In my eyes, the remembrance of Auschwitz, the ‘never again Auschwitz,’ can be the sole foundation of the new Berlin Republic.”
In April 2007 the European Union agreed to set jail sentences up to three years for those who deny or trivialize the Holocaust.[2] More recently, in response to the remarks of Bishop Richard Williamson, the Pope has proclaimed that Holocaust denial is “intolerable and altogether unacceptable.”
“To spread revisionist ideas. To downplay German guilt. Even in relation to the millions of victims of the Shoah.”
Deborah Lipstadt went over the top, however, by accusing Trump of flirting with Holocaust denial.[9]
"When Dachau fell into Western hands in 1945, it had to look the part, so…it was transformed into a showplace of horrors. … The camp had to have a gas chamber, so, since one did not exist, it was decided to pretend that the shower bath had been one. Previously it had flagstones to a height of about four feet [on the walls]. Similar flagstones were taken [from the adjacent room] and put above those in the shower bath, and a new lower ceiling was created at the top of this second row of flagstones, with iron funnels in it (the [fake] inlets for the gas)." (Combat, Jan/Feb 1961, issue #10, p. 4).
However, the first option of the dilemma is untenable, because another cost estimate of the Topf Company, the one of December 9, 1940, referring to a “Ventilation device for corpse cubicles and dissection room” (Entlüftungs-Anlage für Leichenzellen und Sezierraum) – the first facility planned for the crematorium of the main camp in Auschwitz – refers to an air-blower of Type 450 with a capacity of 6,000 m3 of stale air per hour against a total pressure of 25 mm of water column, powered by a three-phase motor of 1.5 HP for 220/380 volts, 50 cycles, at 720 revolutions per minute.[49]
More sweepingly still, Lipstadt claims on p. 18, presented again without any proof that Holocaust denial is “a movement with no scholarly, intellectual, or rational validity.”
1. I was commandant of Auschwitz from May 1941 until December 1943.
A number of items in News Weekly raise the strong suspicion that the Israeli trial of Demjanjuk was being used for reasons other than the authentic conduct of justice. For example, in his review of Tom Teicholz’s book on 26th October 1991, Michael Fitzgerald commented: ‘It also serves to show the motivation of the “war crimes lobby” which has succeeded in convincing countries such as Canada and Australia to spend millions of dollars bringing alleged war criminals (but only those associated with Nazi Germany) to justice. One gets the impression that this is basically an educational exercise aimed at a number of targets: (1) the younger generation of Jews which is apparently showing a lack of interest in the Holocaust; (2) non-Jews, to remind them of their role in anti-Semitism; and (3) to overshadow and discredit the activities of “revisionist” historians whose claims that the Holocaust has been exaggerated or substantially invented have gained ground in France, Germany and North America. Alan Dershowitz… fully endorses Teicholz’s book, saying that it is… “for a world which must never be allowed to forget.”’
“Holocaust denial,” Curtis insists, “is not protected by freedom of speech, nor can freedom of speech be used to dispute punishment for crimes against humanity.” Leaving aside the inadequacy of his language, which we have already established, we can affirm that the exact opposite is true: critics of the current understanding of “the Holocaust” and critics of the London Agreement of 1945 and the Nuremberg Trials are perfectly entitled to rely on the principle of intellectual freedom to allow them to have their say.
1) The first cost estimate of the ventilation system of the future Crematorium II was prepared by engineer Schultze on November 4, 1941, in which the devices foreseen for the single rooms of the new crematorium (the future Crematorium II) are described. Point I refers to a “ventilation device for room “B”“ (Entlüftungs-Anlage für “B”-Raum) – that is the future Morgue #1. A “tubing for intake of fresh air” (Frischluft-Ansaugerohrleitung) is mentioned, therefore, it is certain that the intake system was implied. In Point II the wording “ventilation device for the room ‘B’” (Entlüftungs-Anlage für “B”-Raum) is repeated, but this time it refers to a “tubing for the stale air” (Abluft-Rohrleitung), and therefore, here the exhaust system was implied.
[24] David Cole Interviews Dr. Franciszek Piper, Director, Auschwitz State Museum. Newport Beach, Cal.: Institute for Historical Review, 1992.
In 1983, Sanning's trail-blazing demographic study on the dissolution of Eastern European Jewry appeared, showing that Jewish "Holocaust" losses cannot have amounted to more than several hundred thousand victims. This report gives an update on further research since then. In particular, newly available data about the emigration of Jews from the Soviet Union and its successor states are of interest in this regard. They indicate that Sanning was correct in assuming that Soviet post-war census data about the number of Jews who survived World War Two were unreliable. The number of Jews who have emigrated since the 1970s, plus the demographic collapse Jewry experienced after the war due to an extremely low birth rate, compels the conclusion that many more Jews survived the war in the USSR than previously assumed.
For Lipstadt, “deniers” are not those who express doubts about some element of the Holocaust story, but those who actually believe the orthodox story in all its gruesome details!  The “deniers” according to Lipstadt purposefully distort materials and even “lie” in order to support their ideology. Lipstadt defined that ideology in varying terms but the net result was always the same, "they are fascists and antisemites [sic].”6
By the Spring of 1992, Rudolf had prepared his expert report on the Auschwitz 'gas chambers' at the request of the legal defense of Otto Remer. While Rudolf was postponing any general publication of his work until he was awarded his PhD from the Max Planck Institute, Remer went ahead and published and distributed the work in early 1993.[25] As Rudolf found himself on a collision course with the German legal system, he opted to go further "underground" and continued his writings under various pen names. In early 1994, Prof. Dr. Ernst Nolte: Auch Holocaust-Lügen haben kurze Beine would be released under the pseudonym Manfred Köhler. Rudolf's own legal situation would be taken up in Der Fall Rudolf (The Rudolf Case) under the pseudonym Wilhelm Schlesiger.
Curiously, the authors who presume to uphold the case for the existence of a Third Reich policy to exterminate the Jews fail to explain a considerable number of facts which, had there been such a policy, would be incomprehensible. As A. R. Butz wrote, “The simplest valid reason for being skeptical about the extermination claim is also the simplest conceivable reason: at the end of the war they were still there” (The Hoax of the Twentieth Century, p. 10). In 1945, at war’s end, the number of Jewish “survivors” or “miraculous” Jewish survivors was staggering. So many “miraculous survivors” could not be a miracle but rather the manifestation of a natural fact. Each survivor who dares to testify that people of his or her category were systematically slaughtered is making, by the sheer fact of still being alive, a self-refutation argument: he or she is “living proof” that the statement is absurd. Still in 1997, fifty-two years after the war, the official number of Jewish survivors was assessed, by some at 834,000 and by others at 960,000 (“Holocaust Survivors” by Adina Mishkoff, Administrative Assistant, Amcha, Jerusalem, August 13, 1997; these figures were provided by the office of the Israeli Prime Minister).
According to mainstream historiography, not a single transport of Dutch Jews ever reached the Occupied Eastern Territories. The book mentions (p. 242) reports of "mass executions of Dutch Jews in Poland", but here is not the talk of mass gassings at Auschwitz or Sobibór, but of smaller massacres at various locations (p. 242):
So, his purportedly “balanced” weighing of the arguments for the Big Holocaust, so to call the version of the period that reigns undisturbed today in the public perception and the law, is in the dustbin and, to no one’s surprise, in its place emerges … a balanced weighing of the arguments for the Big Holocaust, and against it. If the first edition’s but-lightly feigned agnosticism is abandoned, how, then, one might ask, can its successor aspire to any such descriptor as “balanced?”
"But in the end, yes, we contribute to everything that happened as a collective psyche and you know, even when we blame Hitler for the Holocaust, we really cannot. The Holocaust is a manifestation of the collective psychosis that was occurring in Europe at that time and Hitler was a symbolic manifestation of that. Because if there wasn’t that collective psychosis, Hitler wouldn’t have survived one day."
The question of the way those doors opened is fairly involved. Leuchter, in his report about gas chambers, had argued that doors swinging into a gas-chamber would be difficult to open because of corpses piling up against them from the inside, and so van Pelt was pleased when he could show that the re-design of Crematorium II for its installation at Birkenau had also led to a re-orientation of the doors of Morgue 1 which now opened outwards. Part of the reason for this change is, however, the fact that those doors formerly had to open inwards, because they would otherwise have obstructed the foot of the stairs-cum-slide. With that element out of the way there was now a choice.
First of all, it has to be noted that no known document states that the capacity of the air-blowers of Morgue #1 of Crematoria II and III was increased from 4,800 to 8,000 m3 of air per hour; incontrovertible data stating exactly the opposite exists: the cost estimate of the Topf Company of November 4, 1941, claims in fact, for the two air-blowers of the room at issue, a capacity of 4,800 m3 of air per hour, and this is fully confirmed both by invoice no. 171 of February 22nd 1943 for Crematorium II, and by invoice no. 729 of May 27, 1943 for Crematorium III.
The unavoidable headline is that Cole stands by his early research, rejecting the standard claim that Auschwitz and many other infamous camps served as killing centers equipped with homicidal gas chambers. “Auschwitz was not an extermination camp,” he writes:
This is all contradicted by another “expert” on the Sobibor camp, Yitzhak Arad. He insisted there were originally three gas chambers, each 4 x 4 meters and able to hold about 200 people.[29] In the autumn of 1942, Arad claims the Germans added three new gas chambers, to make a total of six gas chambers. They were of the same dimensions as the old gas chambers, 4 x 4 meters (sixteen square meters). This information was published in 1987.[30] In a 1990 article in The Encyclopedia of the Holocaust, Arad changed the capacity of the gas chambers. He said that each chamber could hold 160 to 180 victims, not 200.[31]
Paul Sakowski[55], who had been infected with typhus and spent five months in his cell in the Camp Prison, became an earwitness to the arrival of the Dutchmen and their last night in the prison, when they sang their national songs. The next morning Sakowski (who had recovered from typhus and had to report for work again for the first time), witnessed, standing outside the new crematorium, the execution of the Dutch officers. They were in small groups led down into the ditch where their sentence was read by a German officer. They were allowed to smoke a last cigarette and to choose whether they wished to be blindfolded or not. The execution lasted several hours.
All deportees of these transports are said to have been killed in gas chambers, with only one exception: the entry of August 15, for which Czech gives a number of registered inmates which she must have derived from the registration lists. However, there is nothing in these documents confirming that the transport with which these 102 admitted deportees arrived consisted of 2,000 inmates, let alone that 1898 of them were killed. In fact, Szternfinkiel insists in all cases that the deportees were killed all and sundry, hence Czech’s correction here is a manipulation of the source.
On May 11, 2009, Demjanjuk was deported from Cleveland to be tried in Germany. On May 12, 2011, Demjanjuk was convicted by a German criminal court as an accessory to the murder of 27,900 people at Sobibór and sentenced to five years in prison. No evidence was presented at Demjanjuk’s trial linking him to specific crimes. Instead, Demjanjuk was convicted under a new line of German legal thinking that a person who served at an alleged death camp can be charged as an accessory to murder because the camp’s sole function was to kill people. No proof of participation in a specific crime is required. Demjanjuk died in Germany before his appeal could be heard by a German Appellate Court.[20]
Actually, the Germans did have a problem, a huge one: body disposal. For the two years prior to the Hungarian action, Auschwitz averaged about 16,000 deaths per month. At first they had only the small Krema 1 to burn the bodies. This could not keep up, and so the excess bodies were buried, and later exhumed and burned on open fires—a familiar story by now, with all its attendant difficulties. When the four new Kremas came on-line, they managed to do the job.[65]
In this way, the witness simply becomes the mouthpiece for as much of the prosecution’s case as he will assent to, or at least not explicitly deny. The appearance of voluntary or spontaneous admissions in the resulting statements makes them much more convincing evidence than the interrogation transcript itself would have been. This, of course, was intentional on the prosecution’s part. To give a simple example from the Tesch case, consider the following exchange during Drosihn’s interrogation
Version HB-7a, a text of 35 pages, is from the documents of Dr. Rudolf Pechel, a journalist and newspaper editor who had been detained in Sachsenhausen because he was suspected of high treason.[23] As in the case of HB-5, the text was written on ocher onionskin. This suggests that this text too was typed in the camp. As the document is letter-perfect, it is probably safe to conclude that this was the version handed over to the Soviet investigators by Hellmut Bock. Therefore HB-7a is presumably a carbon copy of the original.
The book The Dissolution of Eastern European Jewry by Walter Sanning is probably the most-assiduous study ever conducted of 20th-Century Jewish demography, especially in its analysis of World-War-II-related Jewish population changes. Sanning bases his study almost exclusively on Allied, Zionist and pro-Zionist West German sources. His analysis includes evidence given by the wartime U.S. assistant secretary of state, the Institute of Jewish Affairs, the American Jewish Year Book, official census publications, and the pro-Zionist Institute for Contemporary History in Munich. Sanning keeps his book as free of emotion as possible in order to contribute to a reasoned discussion underlying the charge of German genocide.[30]
“The Canadian postal service, treating Revisionism the way it treats pornography, refused him all service and all right to receive mail. Zündel only recovered his postal rights after a year of judicial procedures. In the meantime, his business has failed. At the instigation of Sabina Citron, the Attorney General of Ontario filed a complaint against Zündel for publishing a ‘false statement, tale or news.’ The charge was based on the following reasoning: the defendant had abused his right to freedom of expression; by distributing the Harwood pamphlet, he was spreading information that he knew was false; in fact, he could not fail to be aware that the ‘genocide of the Jews’ and the ‘gas chambers’ were an established fact.”
A hearing took place before the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission in 1998 and on 10th October 2000 the Commission ruled that Töben must remove from the Adelaide Institute website material considered to be hate speech and refrain from republishing such or similar material. This ruling was confirmed by Justice Branson in the Federal Court on 17th September 2002. The offending material included: (1) claims that there is serious doubt that the Holocaust occurred; (2) statements that it is unlikely that there were homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz; (3) an accusation that Jewish people who are offended by and challenge Holocaust denial are of limited intelligence; (4) claims that some Jewish people, for improper purposes, including financial gain, have exaggerated the number of Jews killed during World War Two and the circumstances in which they were killed; (5) a home page statement headed “About the Adelaide Institute.”[9 ]
“One of the most moving, troubling and insightful books on the Holocaust, or for that matter any other subject, that I have ever read.” — The Catholic Review
[1] The currently accepted orthodox narrative of the so-called first gassing is succinctly summarized by Danuta Czech, Auschwitz Chronicle 1938-1945, pp. 84-87. See the critique of this narrative by Carlo Mattogno, Auschwitz: The First Gassing. Rumor and Reality, 3rd ed., Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield 2016.
“Eventually in 1944, the day came when someone came to our block – the music block was the only block where Jews and non-Jews were mixed. Then came the dreaded moment, ‘Aryans to one side, Jews to the other.’ We thought, ‘Now we’ll be sent to the gas chamber.’ But that was when they sent us to Bergen-Belsen.” (p. 221)
The only way of supporting the claim that Jews were killed en masse at Auschwitz during the first half of 1942 is the use of dubious sources full of wild claims without any support in the extant documentation: Gilbert’s and Szternfinkiel’s wholly invented mass gassings as listed in the second table, plus a few gassing events among registered inmates whose reality is confirmed only by self-proclaimed “eyewitnesses” who testified during the Polish show trials against Rudolf Höss and members of the Auschwitz camp garrison.[8] Since each death of a registered inmate was recorded numerous times and in a number of ways by the various Auschwitz authorities, and because these documents do not reflect these mass murders, as Mattogno has aptly shown, it is quite safe to say that these events are based merely on witness fantasies and are simply untrue.
When, for the October 2021 issue of Culture Wars, E. Michael Jones reviewed Katharina Volckmer's novella The Appointment, which portrays a German woman suffering self-hatred because of Holocaust-propaganda, that was when he began to regard debunking the Holocaust as an important endeavor. The title of Jones' review is: “The Repressed Returns to Germany.” Katharina Volckmer's novella consists of a monologue delivered by a German woman living in England (Volckmer's real-life situation) while she undergoes an examination by a Jewish physician preparatory to a sex-change operation. Jones argues that Volckmer's “deliberately obscene and transgressive narrative” is a Trojan horse for her real message:
Belzec, which commenced operation in March [1942], had three gas chambers located in a wooden barrack; Sobibor, where the killings began in May, housed its gas chambers in a brick building and Treblinka, which was established in July, had three gas chambers that could be hermetically sealed. At each of the three camps, hundreds of thousands of Jews were murdered by exhaust gas from diesel engines.[52]
Josiah DuBois, the chief prosecuting attorney in the I.G. Farben trial, wanted to make sure the judges fully grasped the enormous power and influence of the organization the accused men worked for. The prosecution set up huge charts and diagrams detailing the scale and scope of I.G. Farben, and introduced into evidence a mass of supporting reports, correspondence, patent licenses and other corporate documents. However, this proved to be a tactical error. Two of the judges questioned the relevance of the testimony, and openly complained that the trial was being slowed down by documents having only the slightest materiality to the charges.[10]
Does the testimony of the survivors of the “death camps” prove the Holocaust? If Bishop Farrell really believes this to be so, he should read, Assassins of Memory, which was written by mainstream Holocaust historian Pierre Vidal-Naquet.
One year following Irving’s trial in Munich, Swiss legislators appended Article No. 261 to the nation’s existing penal code. Although ostensibly dealing with hate crimes, the all-too-familiar wording of the law indisputably proved that “Holocaust deniers” were the primary target behind the legislation:
Another huge issue to be aired for the first time before the IMT was that regarding Nazi genocidal language. We are told, by semantically inclined historians like the extreme intentionalist Jeffrey Herf, that the words vernichtung, liquidierung and ausrottung which often appeared in speeches made by Hitler and other leading Nazis, also in articles in Der Stürmer in relation to the Jews, had only one meaning. Herf states that the ‘public language of the Nazi regime combined complete suppression of any facts about the Final Solution with a brutal, sometimes crude declaration of murderous intent. Two key verbs and nouns in the German language were at the core of the language of mass murder: vernichten and ausrotten. These translate as ‘annihilate, ‘exterminate’, ‘totally destroy’ and ‘kill,’ and the nouns Vernichtung and Ausrottung as ‘annihilation’, ‘extermination’, ‘total destruction’ and ‘killing.’ Whether taken on their own from the dictionary meaning or placed in the context of the speeches, paragraphs and sentences in which they were uttered, their meaning was clear.’[22]
Illustration 1: Sign posted outside the old crematorium at the former Auschwitz Main Camp juxtaposing the situation before the building’s conversion to an air-raid shelter (left) to the current situation (right).
In this context one might wonder where the machine and the trailer had sustained the heavy damage visible on the photographs. In all likelihood it was not caused by deliberate demolition but by an artillery shell. As no fighting at or near the Yanov camp has ever been reported, this is further circumstantial evidence that the mill was found elsewhere.
This is the site of the infamous Belsen Concentration Camp liberated by the British on 15th April 1945. 10,000 unburied dead were found here. Another 13,000 have since died. All of them victims of the German New Order in Europe and an example of Nazi Kultur.[2]
So finally, if Nadjari was a member of the Sonderkommando, how did he survive? Well, the information he gives about this is peculiar. First, on the demolition of the Crematoriums II and III (with the help of some girls) he writes:
The emotions stirred by World War Two remain high. To question any aspect of this conflict still meets solid resistance and ad hominem attacks. Barnes once wrote that in the minds of anti-revisionists the term “revisionism” savors of malice and vindictiveness. Barnes’s few brief statements regarding the Holocaust, his positive book review of Paul Rassinier’s trail-blazing work, The Drama of the European Jews, and his involvement in the publication of a few early Holocaust revisionist titles have resulted in wild attacks on his character from the anti-revisionist crowd.
A few years later, when Ernst Zündel was tried a second time for violating Canada’s foolish law against spreading “false news” about the Holocaust and other sacred cows, Bradley played a key role in raising the morale of Zündel and his supporters. The early stages of the trial had been adverse to Zündel, leaving him and his team downcast. I vividly recall Ernst’s jubilation over the phone at Bradley’s testimony, in which with his common sense and aplomb he shredded the Holocaust mystique by cutting the testimony of various of its most sainted “eyewitnesses” down to size. Most memorable was his demolition of Elie Wiesel, who, Bradley told the court, was “not wrapped too tight” for claiming that geysers of blood had spurted from Jewish bodies in Ukraine for months after they were dead and buried. It would be too much to say that Bradley’s testimony outweighed that of Fred Leuchter, Robert Faurisson, David Irving, and the many other witnesses to come. Yet by violating the Holocaust taboos against common sense and liberating laughter, Bradley dominated the courtroom and reversed the momentum of the trial.
One frankly wonders what Evans and Bartholomew might have to say about Samuel Crowell’s singular thesis, exposited the Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes. Alas, if the existence of Crowell’s monograph came to their attention, they keep it to themselves.
Diese abenteuerliche Praxis, Duschräume Gaskammern zu nennen, dauert bis heute an. Auf der Webseite von Israels Holocaust-Museum “Yad Vashem” sieht man ein Foto des tatsächlichen Häftlingsduschraums im Lager Dachau wie folgt beschriftet:
Ich könnte jetzt eine lange Reihe von Persönlichkeiten und Medienstimmen zitieren, die ausdrücken, was sie davon halten, wenn jemand an diesem Fundament rüttelt. Ich kann uns das aber ersparen, denn jeder weiß, was die überwältigende Mehrheit der Bevölkerung in Deutschland von denen hält, denen man nachsagt, sie leugnen Auschwitz bzw. den Holocaust als Ganzes. Derlei Menschen befinden sich für viele auf einem ähnlichen moralischen Niveau wir Kinderschänder. Tiefer könnte man kaum sinken.
Given the striking lack of evidence, and the inconceivability that mass murder of millions was underway without awareness at the top, only two alternatives are possible: (1) the Nazi hierarchy knew all about the mass murder but mutually agreed to never discuss it, or to refer to it only in euphemisms and code language—even in the most private of settings; or (2) no systematic mass murder occurred at all, and the reality was in fact just as they said: expulsion and deportation, along with a certain degree of incidental death. I would suggest that a detailed look at Goebbels’s diary entries, in conjunction with the alleged ‘extermination’ actions that were occurring at the same time, may shine some light on this dispute.
On 23 July 1944, the Red Army captured the first German concentration camp, Majdanek. Other camps followed: Auschwitz (27 January 1945), Gross-Rosen (mid-February 1945), Sachsenhausen (23 April 1945) and Stutthof (9 May 1945). In addition to these large camps, several small ones – such as the forced-labor camp Lemberg-Janowska Street – fell into the hands of the Soviet forces. In order to report what had transpired in these camps, the ESC had each of them examined by a sub-commission consisting of medical experts, physicians, engineers etc. who had been recruited from among the “operatives” of the Ministry of Domestic Affairs (NKVD) present in all units of the Red Army.
A detailed forensic examination at the Treblinka Camp using sophisticated electronic ground radar has also found no evidence of mass graves. An Australian team headed by Richard Krege, a qualified electronics engineer, carried out an examination at the site of the Treblinka camp. Krege’s team used an $80,000 Ground Penetration Radar (GPR) device, which returns vertical-cross-sectional profiles to a computer monitor. GPR devices are routinely used around the world by geologists, archeologists, and police. GPR detects any major disturbances in the soil to a normal effective depth of four or five meters.
“Leuchter comes across just as straightforward and guileless on film as he is in real life. As a result, some viewers of earlier versions at the Sundance Festival, the Toronto Film Festival and Harvard University began to question the Holocaust extermination stories they'd been told, while others suspected that Morris himself might have been converted to Holocaust revisionism. At the eleventh hour, Morris re-edited the film in an effort to emphasize his anti-revisionist point of view. Character assassination aside, the question remains as to whether or not Leuchter's findings regarding the alleged Nazi gas chambers at Auschwitz and Birkenau are correct.” [15]
The camp administration attempted to improve the hygienic-sanitary situation by creating a hospital for the inmates (Häftlingskrankenbau) in Barracks 24, 26, 28 and 30[24], three washhouses (Waschbaracken)[25] and two latrine barracks (Abortbaracken).[26] A disinfestation barracks was also constructed, with regard to which a report from SS-Sturmbannführer Karl Bischoff, head of the Auschwitz Zentralbauleitung, states:
Hence the statistical difference between the two groups of samples is virtually non-existent. Assuming for the sake of argument that the analytical results are reliable, only two options remain: either these other buildings exhibited unfavourable conditions for the formation of these compounds during the war years, or they were not at all or only rarely exposed to HCN, presumably for delousing of the respective premises. But, if anyone reckons that the remains of a wartime homicidal cyanide gas chamber can be identified, which has somehow been omitted from the several wall-samplings to-date, we would be keen to attempt some further sampling to be taken from it, expecting that it would show some elevated level of residual cyanide.
Sometimes it is easy for us to forget that, in the quite recent past, Holocaust revisionism was a thriving movement that exacted some pretty impressive concessions from mainstream historians. The 1970s and 80s witnessed the rise of revisionism as a vigorous network of activists from all walks of life, complete with filmmakers, military personnel, dramatists, clergymen, journalists, and university professors. During this period, revisionists succeeded in forcing mainstream Holocausters to distance themselves from many of their more ludicrous claims. Yet during the past fifteen or so years, revisionism has gone from being an exciting and formidable movement to a scattered, quiet, and frequently depressing jumble of independent publishing ventures that commands scant public attention.
At Auschwitz, some say, the place was at least partially designed and built to bring about death for millions of the hapless souls ingathered from the vast territories occupied by Germany during World War II and transported there. Thousands of “free” employees, including Germans, were assigned to work there (by no means just guards, but engineers, managers, clerks, etc.), including over 8,000 SS guards.[[1]] The loudest claims of the death toll there have declined from over four million to around 1.4 million,[2] meaning that most of those sent there must have “survived” the camp, having been released, transferred to other camps or just gone home when their tour was up. While the products of Auschwitz undoubtedly helped the Wehrmacht resist the onslaught of hostile armies invading Germany from three directions, it did produce many deaths on its premises, from disease, starvation, exposure, accidents, and a miniscule number of executions as Germany’s ability to defend and even feed its own people was eviscerated by the invaders.
Third: If the 6-million figure is so well documented, why then do we never see even a basic breakdown of it? That is, why do we never find even the most elementary set of numbers, based on cause of death, that add up to 6 million?[7] This is not a trivial matter. Allegedly the experts know, more or less, how and where the Jews were killed. They know about the six extermination camps (more on these shortly). They know about the Einsatzgruppen, the so-called German killing squads that operated behind the Eastern front. They know about the many Jewish ghettos—where they were located, when they operated, and when they were evacuated. The Holocaust is, after all, the “most well-documented event in history.” Why do we not have even a rough picture of how, by numbers, the Jews died, such that the totals add up to 6 million? The reader is invited to look for any reputable source, printed or online, that purports to show such a list; it will be a long search.[8]
The mainstream’s take on it is different, though. When it comes to Holocaust revisionism, the less libelous and inciteful a speech is, the more dangerous it is considered by the mainstream. For instance, German journalist Patrick Bahners once stated about Holocaust revisionism:[7]
Step Number 1 was sensitive because, needless to say, the systematic confiscation of the belongings of hundreds of thousands of civilians constituted a serious crime under international law. Moreover, the income gained this way was most likely used to finance the whole resettlement program. Steps Numbers 2 and 3 were measures of prophylactic hygiene carried out in order to minimize the risk that the arrival of new inmates would lead to outbreaks of epidemic diseases at their points of destination. Step 3 would obviously be even more sensitive in nature than Step 1. Step 4 would have required coordination with railway authorities as well as relevant local authorities at the destination points.
This evidence made a marked impression on the Yahad - In Unum team:
In preparation for the 1947 Polish show trial against former Auschwitz camp commandant Rudolf Höss, Polish engineer Dr. Roman Dawidowski compiled an expert report on evidence supporting homicidal gassing claims at Auschwitz, where we read on this topic:[3]
Although Lipstadt argues that there are ways to vindicate Holocaust eyewitness testimony, she goes on to make this eye opening statement in regard to the testimonies in the possession of Israel’s national memorial to the Holocaust, Yad Vashem: “[T]he Institute for Historical Review published a report from the Jerusalem Post in which the director of Yad Vashem’s archives reported that more than half of its testimonies from Holocaust survivors are ‘unreliable.’ According to Yad Vashem officials, these testimonies have never been used as evidence in Nazi war crimes trials because survivors who wanted to be ‘part of history’ may, in fact, have allowed their imaginations to ‘run away with them.’”[24] Here we have a prominent Holocaust historian putting forth reasons (perhaps unwittingly) showing that a significant number of Holocaust “eyewitness testimonies” are simply unreliable. Since a large portion of Holocaust “eyewitness testimony” has been labeled “unreliable,” it is certainly correct for historians to be, at the very least, skeptical of all such testimony.
Even today numerous historians still regard the ESC reports as indisputable historical documents. However, an objective analysis clearly shows that this “evidence” is to a large extent based on manipulation and outright lies. The Soviet investigators regularly resorted to the strategy of having their atrocity propaganda “corroborated” by the witnesses they had recruited after the German retreat. As the commissions charged the Germans with truly gigantic massacres, they were facing a serious problem: Although there had undoubtedly been German mass shootings in the East, the Soviets were hardly ever able to present mass graves containing the alleged number of bodies. They therefore claimed that, facing certain defeat, the “German fascist intruders” had tried to obliterate the traces of their crimes by opening the mass graves, disinterring the corpses and burning them on pyres. The Jews forced to perform this grisly task were subsequently liquidated as undesirable witnesses. The ashes of the victims were scattered on fields or in forests, dumped into rivers or used as fertilizer. The large bones which had survived the cremation were crushed in “bone mills.” This alleged obliteration of mass graves was a recurrent theme of Soviet war and postwar propaganda whose murky source are invariably the reports of the ESC. Our study deals with the “bone mill” presented as material evidence from the Yanov camp.
Latvian Holocaust historians Edward Anders and Juris Dubrovskis have written as follows on their attempt to identify the Jewish victims of the Liepāja massacres (emphasis in original):
“We already knew by late July, August. One came from this camp, one came from that camp. Somehow we knew those things were more or less going on – that there was Auschwitz and that they had gas ovens to gas all the people, children and so. We knew that.” (p. 51)
Keep in mind that even though I was using a pseudonym, I was not falsely claiming to be anyone of note. In other words, Eaton made that admission to a complete nobody, a total stranger. One gets the feeling that many of these experts are secretly longing for the day when they can be open about the ‘Auschwitz problem’ and move past it […].”
Why didn’t Oberhauser claim that until August 1942 (the period for which he was on trial) he never witnessed or operated any homicidal gas chambers? This would have been the best defense, would it not? No, because of the nature of the German legal system that he was entrapped in, it would have been hopeless to attempt to repudiate the Belzec gas chamber story. So, it was simply in Oberhauser’s best legal interests to “confess” to the existence of “gas chambers,” and then claim that there were only a small number of “gassings” while he was in the camp.
The book Sonderkommando Auschwitz is presented as "The Truth about the Gas Chambers" and "A Unique Testimony". These reports are completely unfounded, even from the point of view of the historiography of the Holocaust.
But entirely aside from the rewards of individual or group vengeance afforded by the tribunals, a motivation ultimately even more-potent beckoned the credible and creative to take up careers of testifying to atrocities and against people who seemed likely to have committed some. The times and places in which the tribunals conducted their show "trials" were penurious in the extreme: housing in defeated Germany, and Poland as well, had been extensively destroyed by the Allies’ bombers and artillery divisions, and the railroads by means of which to ship the meager crops to consumers who hadn’t grown their own were equally victims of the same process. Consumer goods, including clothing and heating fuel, were in desperately short supply, and the cities and countryside alike seethed with starving, murderous hordes of refugees of every sort imaginable. It was a bad time to be anything but a farmer living with his livestock and fields enclosed within an impregnable fortress.
On the left is the Sauna where Nadjari indicates with numbers all the rooms he went through while on the right there are the barracks with the triple bunk beds. So here is the question: How many sketches of the crematoriums are there?
Tuttavia è oltremodo dubbio che gli elenchi nominativi dei trasporti che si sono conservati contengano almeno [4.000.000 – 350.000 =] 3.650.000 nomi. I repertori nominativi più importanti (Germania, Francia, Belgio, Theresienstadt, Olanda) includono complessivamente circa 280.000 nomi. Va precisato che le liste di deportazione a Theresienstadt si riferiscono al “Protettorato di Boemia e Moravia”, all’incirca l’attuale Repubblica Ceca, ma vi sono compresi anche deportati dalla Germania; inoltre tutti i deportati morti documentariamente attestati sono già inclusi nei libri dei decessi dei campi o dei ghetti. In particolare, la maggior parte degli Ebrei deportati dai paesi summenzionati furono inviati ad Auschwitz e i deceduti figurano nei relativi registri dei decessi. Per i campi orientali esistono liste di deportazione nominative di circa 34.000 Ebrei olandesi a Sobibór (già inclusi nella cifra summenzionata di 280.000). Mettendo insieme tutte le altre liste dei trasporti, si potrà arrivare a 300.000, forse a 350.000 nomi, ma mancherebbero comunque 3.300.000 nomi: da dove risultano?
[13] Rudolf, Germar, The Chemistry of Auschwitz: The Technology and Toxicology of Zyklon B and the Gas Chambers. A Crime-Scene Investigation, Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2017.
Because orthodox Holocaustiography masquerades as both history and hard science, it has to take itself very seriously. Believing its own myths about unique evil and unprecedented criminality, Holocaust historiography operates in an unironic, funereal atmosphere where alternative possibilities simply don't exist. Yet Holocaust revisionism, on the other hand, does something completely different. It is disputatious, dialogical, and aggressive. Without the traditional Holocaust narrative, it couldn't exist. Dissent is revisionism's raison d'etre. It is an exercise in intellectual commensalism; it latches onto the gills of mainstream Holocaust scholarship, where it passes basically unnoticed as its gnarly host devours everything in sight.
The memory of the Nazi-instigated ethnic cleansings known as the Holocaust became the Juggernaut of Conscience chiefly because Germany lost World War II to countries whose governments were strongly influenced by groups that identified with its victims. And, of course, it did not lose in the sense of negotiating a peace and continuing on under its own government—it catastrophically lost control of all its own territory and, knowing that such would be its lot in surrendering, fought a long and desperate struggle to a point that was literally death for millions of its citizens and metaphorically for its infrastructure and economy. Ineluctably, those inside the concentration camps partook of the suffering and devastation under-gone by those outside them.
And yet, when we ask detailed and pointed questions, our historians fall short. They don’t really know when, where, or how the Jews died. They have no technical explanation of how it was possible, for example, to gas thousands of people per day in a single room, and then to dispose of their bodies—such that not a trace remains. They cannot find the mass graves that allegedly held thousands of bodies. They cannot explain wartime aerial photographs that show a disturbingly calm Auschwitz camp. And they refuse to even consider a raft of contradictory evidence. In fact, many aspects of the traditional story simply don’t add up. The deeper we look, the more puzzling the picture becomes—and hence, the great mystery.
Grumbach’s peculiar nomenclature transforms “Holocaust” revisionism into “negationist propaganda,” which he defines as a “denial of the existence of the gas chambers, minimizing the number of Jews killed in the Holocaust and asserting that Jews derived an economic advantage from this period of their history.”[30]
Mr. Ivan Lawrence, MP, spoke out in favor of Holocaust denial legislation, equating Holocaust revisionists with neo-Nazi propagandists. During the course of a public press conference which took place at IJA’s London headquarters, Lawrence, coincidentally a member of the latter’s policy planning panel, exclaimed,
“Yes, I heard that as well. I can still remember this because I later saw those [gas] vans. But I heard about it too. I had by chance seen those vans. They were parked in Rowno [Rivne] and nobody knew what they were. They were those large and long mobile trailers attached to trucks. That is to say, they were mobile gas chambers for smaller operations. My attention was drawn to it by the BBC. Where I saw it was in Rowno. Rowno was in the middle of the Ukraine. But previously we had heard about such things from the BBC, like about mass shootings of Russians. That was what I knew about the best. They had also explained how they had also done that with small groups [of people] and with such vehicles as well. That was such a thing to hear that you wanted to see for yourself if that was really the case. And then I ended up seeing two or three of those things in Rowno, parked near the harbor. I often had to go to Rowno to get replacement parts for the radio post. That could have been in 1943.” (p. 237)
Moving from Gleiwitz, the prisoners continue their journey to Buchenwald, where they are assembled to be counted. And wouldn’t you know that right next to where they are standing is the high chimney of a crematory, although by now it hardly makes an impression. They’ve seen and survived these things before. What really fascinates them, however, is the fact there are hot showers, and beds. The guards in fact have to begin striking the prisoners to maintain order, the prisoners crowding so to get a shower, but to no avail. They obviously believe it is water and not gas that will issue from those showers. Here in the heart of Germany. But now Elie’s father is too exhausted to stand in line. He thinks it’s the end and drags himself to a snow covered hillock of dead bodies to await the end. Suddenly, interrupting the scene of Elie pleading with his father, of pleading with death itself, there is an air raid siren, the lights go out, and the guards drive everyone into the blocks. The prisoners are only too glad not to have to wait outside in the icy wind, instead letting themselves sink down onto beds arranged in tiers. Even the cauldrons of soup at the entrance to the barracks attracts no one. This reminds us of before. Where formerly they were starving, tearing, biting, even killing for a scrap of bread, suddenly food does not matter to anyone, all they want is sleep.
Friedländer wants his readers to visualize the horrible gassing scene at Belzec described by SS-Obersturmführer (First Lieutenant) Kurt Gerstein. But Gerstein had asserted that a big Diesel engine had been used to produce the necessary exhaust gas. Instead of such an engine, we see the front part of a car and the back of a truck of which little more than the license plate is discernible. From both vehicles, hoses lead into a wall. In other words: Instead of Gerstein’s Diesel engine, the engines of these two vehicles serve as (stationary) producers of exhaust gas. The vehicles are thus no “gas vans” where the exhaust gas was blown into a portion of the vehicle. As a matter of fact, unlike Der Spiegel, Friedländer does not speak of a “gassing van”. Apparently he only wanted to illustrate the“gas chamber of Belzec”.
Elie Wiesel ideally embodies this lack of understanding of human nature, which everywhere, in fact, is made up of a combination of Good and Evil. This unintelligence leads him, in his efforts to uphold the argument that the people of Israel is the salt of the earth and suffers from Evil more than any other, to lie with assurance, preach hatred for the opponent and untiringly ask us all to go and, in a way, spit on the graves of the defeated. In January 1945 he and his father had had the choice, offered by the Germans, between staying on at Auschwitz until the arrival of the Soviets,  or being transferred to a camp inside Germany; the two of them, after careful consideration, chose to leave with their exterminators rather than wait for their liberators. Having gotten to Buchenwald, where his father was to die of dysentery and where, it seems, the Germans were killing 10,000 people a day (Stephan Kaptai, “Author, Teacher, Witness,” Time Magazine, March 18, 1985, p. 79: http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,963362,00.html), he nonetheless played chess there at times (Jorge Semprun and Elie Wiesel, Se taire est impossible (Keeping  Silent  Is Impossible), Paris, Arte Editions, 1997, p. 12). In Elie Wiesel, as will have been noted, there is  much of the clown who knows that the more he exaggerates, the more the audience will appreciate him. On February 7, 1996, he received the  decoration of an honorary doctorate from the University of Picardy - Jules Verne. In its issue of February 9, Le Courrier Picard wrote of the talk that Wiesel gave there and of his replies to questions from those attending: “One query came from many in the audience: ‘What do you think of the emergence of revisionist and denialist currents?’ [E. Wiesel answered:] ‘They are virulent anti-Semites, depraved,  organized and well funded. The day I received the Nobel Prize [December 10, 1986 in Oslo], there were hundreds of them in the streets demonstrating against me. Never will I grant them the dignity of a debate. They are morally sick beings. I think I know how to fight injustice, I don’t know how to fight ugliness’.” As Serge Thion and Pierre Guillaume, who accompanied me in Oslo in 1986, can attest, along with myself, the number of demonstrators there that day amounted quite precisely to zero. The truth is that with my two revisionist friends I handed out that day copies, in English and Swedish (easily readable for Norwegians), of my flier on “Elie Wiesel: a  Prominent  False Witness” (http://robertfaurisson.blogspot.com/2010/04/prominent-false-witness-elie-wiesel.html). At the entrance to the hall where the award was about to be presented we had, in an extremely quick action, distributed the text to about forty people; then we in turn entered the hall where, for my part, I struggled to contain my laughter when the Nobel candidate started intoning something of a chant, perhaps a Jewish one, but to an assuredly buffoonish effect. At the exit, the billionaire philosopher Bernard-Henri Levy, flanking Elie Wiesel on the left, cast a dark look at us.
[14] Cesarani, David, Final Solution: The Fate of the Jews 1933-1949, New York: St. Martin’s Press, 2016, p. 294.
As I write these lines (April 2011), Carlo Mattogno is working on a comprehensive reply to the theses of this collection; in time, his book will be published in Italian and in German. Since we are in the process of preparing a new edition of Concentration Camp Majdanek. A Historical and Technical Study, I will use this opportunity to analyze, independently from Mattogno’s future book, the eight-page section of the collection mentioned, written by Tomasz Kranz and titled, “Massentötungen durch Giftgase im Konzentrationslager Majdanek”[2] (Mass Killings by Means of Toxic Gases at the Majdanek Concentration Camp).
Another author not up to speed with the numbers was French MacLean, whose The Cruel Hunters - the 'definitive' study of the famous SS Dirlewanger Brigade - an 'Einsatz' unit allegedly much involved in mass killings of Jews and often working closely with the Einsatzgruppen, estimates a killing total of about 1.3 million which he cites as a sort of consensus of historians on how many Jews were killed in the east. These numbers of course do not explain the missing millions from Auschwitz. MacLean incidentally makes clear that all these units were so overwhelmed with their responsibility for combating partisans that they had little time for anything else.
Franz Hödl, an alleged operator of the Sobibor “gas chambers,” put forth another problematic testimony. He stated: “In Lager 3 [the area of the camp that had the ‘gas chambers’] a concrete building, 18 to 20 meters long with about 6 to 8 gas chambers, had been erected. The gas chamber had either 4 or 6 chambers on either side of the central corridor, three on the left, three on the right.”[32] So, were there 3 chambers on each side of the central corridor as Arad claimed, or were there 4 on each side? Were there a total of 6 chambers as Arad claimed, or were there 8 chambers?
[14] “Evacuation and Concentration Camps in Silesia” in Congressional Record, Senate, Aug. 2, 1945, Annex A-4778/79.
“What I observed was that the women and children had been separated from the men and were sitting in the small wood just across from our barrack; the children would pick flowers, the women would sit and picnic and give the children the food and drink they still had. Then a group would be led into the low building which was Crematorium 4, and you heard a sort of muffled sound. Then from one of the windows from my barrack I could see a person walking up a ladder wearing a gas mask and he would empty a tin into an opening, a sort of skylight, at the top, and he would run down the ladder very quickly. You couldn’t hear a lot, other than the muffled sound; sometimes you could actually hear screams. After a pause you could see smoke coming out of the chimney of Crematorium 4, and a while later activity could be seen at the rear of the crematorium; ash was being dumped at the back into a pond.” (p. 214)
Dalton begins by reminding us why the Holocaust is so important to re-vise. "Why not let the Jews have their ol' Holocaust?," he poses to himself rhetorically. After giving the obligatory reply that we have to dedicate ourselves to historical truth, he quickly proceeds to the good stuff. He describes why we can't just move on and forget about the Holocaust debate:
According to Holocaust historians, the bodies of Jews gassed at the Aktion Reinhardt camps were first buried in mass graves. The bodies were later exhumed and burned in the open air.[31]
Illustration 9: Schematic blueprint of the crematorium with neck shooting facility (below left).
Consequently, for the supposed homicidal gas chamber, the SS had foreseen 4,800 ÷ 506 = 9.48 air exchanges per hour, while in the supposed changing room 10,000 ÷ 902.7 = 11 air exchanges per hour: thus the gas chamber was less ventilated than the changing room!
Although people like Deborah Lipstadt, the Emory University professor who has written and lectured widely on Holocaust denial, have exhorted Jewish parents to just say no to intermarriage, much the way they expect their children not to take drugs, a large majority of parents (and more than a few rabbis) are unable to lay down opposition to intermarriage [between Jews and non-Jews] as a strict operating principle.
West of Memphis was preceded during the eighteen years of interest, inquiry and agitation that followed the tainted verdicts by at least two HBO special television dramas and at least two books about the case. None, of course, contains the denouement encompassed by the present film. The present film, which features extensive self-portrayal by many of the actors in the real-life drama, including the West Memphis 3 themselves, further incorporates extensive footage from the original trial and from various events and investigations that followed it. It even contains evocative scenery from the subject environs during voiceovers that lack a video component, and subtly scored and played music for other interludes. This movie also includes one other important element lacking from most of its predecessors: it identifies the perpetrator of the crime and presents the evidence against him.
One of the most brazen lies in history, the alleged Nazi gas chambers, of course originated in hatred and in the inveterate habit of lying but it has thrived on naivety. In perfectly good faith, the good people were outraged at that “Nazi horror”. In doing so, they lent a hand to a gigantic slander, a criminal lie of worldwide proportions. Sancta simplicitas! Blessed ingenuousness! Historians are beginning to show dissent against this mix of lies and candour, whilst the third post-war generation manifests annoyance at the continuing indoctrination. And the Internet is there. The conditions for a reawakening of minds seem to exist. The Jews, as a whole, and the Israelis would have been well advised to listen to the founder of Yad Vashem, Prof. Ben Zion Dinur, born Dinaburg. Some Jews, such as Josef Ginzburg (aka Joseph G. Burg), Gilad Atzmon and Paul Eisen have done so. They deserve our esteem. But, at this moment, our thoughts must go first to the sizeable cohort of revisionists humiliated, insulted, scorned, beaten, driven to ruin, suicide, sentenced to imprisonment and sometimes even forced into dishonour. And to begin with, our thoughts must go to the very first of them: the Frenchmen Maurice Bardèche, author of Nuremberg or the Promised Land (1948), and Paul Rassinier, author of Le Mensonge d’Ulysse (1950, published in English under the title The Holocaust Story and the Lies of Ulysses.
[7] J.-C. Pressac, Auschwitz: Technique and Operation of the Gas Chambers, The Beate Klarsfeld Foundation, New York 1989, p. 124.
Fig. 4: Moses Korn, a Jewish prisoner forced to work in Sonderkommando 1005 unit, poses next to a bone crushing machine in the Janowska concentration camp (USHMM caption).
On the scientific level, revisionism has won a total victory. It no longer has any opponents. The Hilbergs, the Vidal-Naquets, the Klarsfelds, the Berenbaums, the Deborah Lipstadts, a Robert Jan van Pelt who, in essence, is content to take up the feeble arguments of a Jean-Claude Pressac for his own account, have been reduced to naught. The revisionists no longer see anything opposing them but Spielberg films, Yad Vashem ceremonies, museums inspired by Disneyland, pilgrimages to Auschwitz, media drumming, brainwashing in the schools and universities and, finally, State propaganda relying on police and judicial repression. Our opponents have laid down their arms but practically no one knows it since the defeated, thanks to the power they possess in the media and their consummate talent in bluffing, blow their trumpets—or shofars—as if they had carried the day.
Frau Regina Dahl is a coworker at the NZ (National-Zeitung) and a successful researcher in the area of exposing atrocity lies. […] In the NZ (No. 35 of Sept. 30, 1966, pp. 3 ff.) she published a paper about the mendacity and perjuriousness of many witnesses in the concentration camp trials. From this revealing article we gather some details about the so-called Sobibor Trial, which started on September 4, 1965, at the Hagen Jury Court. […]
Mere denial of guilt in the trumped-up offenses also rapidly became known as availing no benefit to the accused, and in fact the contrary. For those who sought immunity, or just a prison sentence more-lenient than the death sentences that all could see were being handed out like Communion wafers, there were only two alternatives: amplify and reinforce details of the as-yet-sketchily-described offenses, and/or identify alternative guilty parties who might, in the best of situations, be charged with crimes even greater than those of which the initial victim was trying to exonerate himself. This second alternative produced a flood of as many potential accuseds as the tribunal cared to pick out for its use.
The function of Birkenau camp, which continued regardless to be called a Kriegsgefangenenlager[108], changed only in September 1942. During the month of October, the building plan (Bauvorhaben) “Kriegsgefangenenlager Auschwitz” was given the official designation of “Durchführung der Sonderbehandlung” (implementation of special treatment)[109]. This change consisted of a vast program of construction projects to transform the camp into a source of manpower for the industries which had already arisen or were to arise in the territory around Auschwitz. A flow chart of the Zentralbauleitung drawn up by Bischoff in January 1943 mentioned in one sentence the “Bauleitung des Kriegsgefangenenlager (Durchführung der Sonderbehandlung)”[110], in another the “Bauleitung Kriegsgefangenenlager Auschwitz (Durchführung der Sonderbaumassnahmen)”[111], establishing a full equivalence between “implementation of special treatment” and “implementation of special construction measures”.
Concomitantly, organizations supposedly dedicated to safeguarding human rights consistently refuse to serve as advocates for persecuted revisionists or free thinkers. The right to be able to think freely and express one’s thoughts without fear of retribution has been irretrievably compromised. If the current and dangerous trend continues, there will not exist one square inch of free soil among the western nations where an individual accused of violating the nebulous ‘Holocaust Denial’ laws will find refuge or elude the heavy arm of retribution. Free-thinkers will have ‘nowhere to run, and nowhere to hide.’ In ages past, the Catholic Church served as a place of sanctuary for those unjustly branded by an intolerant society, but even this boon has been effectively neutralized. The widely publicized ostracism of Bishop Williamson underscores the enormous pressure that is being placed on the Pope and the Vatican as it struggles to defend itself against a formidable array of relentless critics who unscrupulously accuse it of being the ideological precursor of ‘Naziism,’ the author of ‘theological anti-Semitism,’ and ‘refusing to save the Jews of Europe from extermination.’ Thus, compassion and mercy have been neutralized to feed the Holocaustian Moloch.
[now at http://holocausthandbuecher.com/dl/14d-anf.pdf; English: http://holocausthandbooks.com/dl/14-apf.pdf].
Furthermore, Arad never considers the enormous problems associated with crushing the charred teeth and bones of hundreds of thousands of victims into ash with hammers. There were the charred bones and teeth of 200,000 to 250,000 victims. Imagine how long it would take the small number of Sobibor inmates who allegedly worked in the “gas chamber area” to manually crush into ash with hammers the millions of bones and teeth from these hundreds of thousands of victims!
Refreshingly, Lowe does a reasonable, if somewhat terse, job of reporting the postwar expulsions of Germans from portions of Germany made over to that unfortunate country’s conquering enemies. He does not appear to shrink from fulsome descriptions of the horror and injustice visited upon millions of victims, the vast majority of whom would be counted as innocent under any human standard of judgment. He also recounts the horrific after-Holocaust experienced by Jews returning to their homes in Eastern Europe, there to find themselves dispossessed and persecuted afresh for having the temerity to survive and attempt to take up their former lives and property, but he does this straightforwardly and without unseemly emphasis or embellishment.
A more important, more sensational and better known case brought under the Racial Discrimination Act was that initiated against Dr. Fredrick Töben by Jeremy Jones and the committee members of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry in 1996, a matter that was to drag out until 2009. Töben had established a revisionist website under the name of the Adelaide Institute. The complaint was that Töben through his website had engaged in malicious anti-Jewish propaganda. He had denied the Nazi genocide of the Jews and blamed Jews for the crimes committed under Stalin. He had stated that “the well-connected Jewish lobby wants to signal for those who are aware of their various rackets and schemes, that, if you cross them as an individual or as a nation, then they will boycott, persecute and ultimately punish you, using Gentile government agencies and Gentile taxpayers’ money…..One day in the not too distant future the tables might well have turned and the aroused Gentile world will mete out justice and vengeance.”[95]
It's obvious to me Yousof has his finger on something. There's plenty missing here. More than he suspects maybe. But this is the hand I was dealt. We can't all be scholars. Most of us aren't. Many of us never went to school at all. When my father-in-law finished the first grade in a Mexico City grammar school, that was it for him. He had to get a job. Nevertheless, ordinary people everywhere feel committed, in the context of their own lives, to right action and right relationship. These are no more and no less than the first responsibilities intellectuals bear, in the context of their lives. I have found everywhere that ordinary people sense it is good to be truthful, generous and open-minded and that it's base to be deceitful, uncharitable and bigoted. With respect to the Holocaust controversy, I don't know of a single intellectual elite that has not betrayed those simple standards.
"..when Auschwitz was evacuated, and a large proportion of the prisoners came to Bergen-Belsen, the camp was at once filled to overflowing and a situation arose which even I accustomed as I was to Auschwitz, could only describe as dreadful. Kramer was powerless to cope with it. Even Pohl[72] was shocked when he saw the conditions, during our lightning tour of all the concentration camps which the Reichsführer SS had ordered us to undertake. He at once commandeered a neighboring camp from the army so that there would at least be room to breathe, but conditions there were no better. There was hardly any water, and the drains simply emptied into the adjoining fields. Typhus and spotted typhus were rampant. A start was immediately made on the building of mud huts, to provide additional accommodation. But it was all too little and too late…..so it was little wonder that the British found only dead or dying or persons stricken with disease, and scarcely a handful of healthy prisoners in a camp that was in an unimaginably disgusting condition."[73]
As it turned out, Lüftl was fortunate. In June 1994, Austria’s District Criminal Court dismissed all charges. In addition, the Austrian Ministry of Justice released a statement conceding that it had been unable to uncover credible evidence proving that Lüftl had deliberately penned his essay with the intention of reviving National Socialism.
Finally, in his attempt to obtain an upper bound for the amount of Zyklon that could have been put to “ordinary” use, van Pelt assumes that the entire supply of that product delivered to the Auschwitz complex had to be used in either the Stammlager or in Birkenau. He gives no justification for the assumption that the other Auschwitz subcamps never required Zyklon. The need to supply subcamps was repeatedly mentioned at the Tesch trial.[126] As van Pelt cites the trial transcript, it is unclear how he remained ignorant of this fact; the most charitable interpretation is that while he found it a fine thing to cite the trial transcript in support of his arguments, he did not feel obligated to go the trouble of reading it.
Within a couple of decades, the story shifted a bit. The salient feature of the gas chamber as the prime murder weapon remained, but it was now confined to 'eastern' camps as opposed to those of the 'west'. This is partly related to the Cold War period in which the Soviets and their minions controlled areas in which those eastern camps - being under Soviet control and continued occupation - were not open to inspection and research. Auschwitz - being in Poland - remained the main site and had by now become the centerpiece of the Holocaust legend in books, films, plays, and popular consciousness.
Defenders of the Holocaust story sometimes explain the absence of a written order to exterminate European Jewry by saying that the Nazis destroyed the evidence. However, an operation as big as the so-called Holocaust would have required written orders that would have been referred to in countless different ministerial bodies. It would have been impossible for all of these documents to have been completely destroyed at the end of the war. There would always have been carbon copies of the extermination order somewhere.[6]
In its drafts Shn-5 and Shn-6, the ESC extensively quotes from this highly suspect document.[31] Ziereis allegedly described a meeting of the German concentration camp commandants at Sachsenhausen, where a new “neckshot facility for Politruks and Russian commissars” was demonstrated. According to Shn-6, Ziereis made the following comment on the shooting of Soviet POWs at Sachsenhausen (“Russenaktion”)[32]:
"We are not allowed to forget about it, even if we wanted to. Coverage of the Holocaust is standard fare in every school curriculum. Children the world over read The Diary of Anne Frank, Number the Stars, Waiting for Anya, Butterfly. Students learn about the gas chambers and the six million, about the Nazi atrocities. We watch Holocaust miniseries on television, Schindler's List, and Night and Fog. We celebrate 'Holocaust Education Week,' and we acknowledge January 27 each year as the 'International Day of Commemoration' of Holocaust victims, as declared by the UN in 2005. School children collect six million pencils, or six million paperclips. We visit Holocaust museums. We take college courses (for full credit) from endowed chairs in Holocaust studies. This is not by accident. It is a deliberate plan, to make sure we 'never forget.' And if we can never forget, then we should at least get the story straight."
A problem with Longerich’s statement is that a large number of Jewish children survived the so-called Holocaust. Carlo Mattogno has prepared a long list of children and twins at Auschwitz who survived the camp.[35] These children were not “fit for work” and could not have survived the war if Auschwitz-Birkenau had been the extermination camp it is claimed to be.
I was commissioned by my superior authority, the former Inspectorate of C[oncentration]C[amp]s, to create from the grounds of the former Polish artillery barracks near AUSCHWITZ, a quarantine camp for inmates from Poland. After Himmler had visited the camp in 1941, I received the order to expand the camp as a large concentration camp for the east, in particular to deploy the inmates in agriculture, which had to be developed as much as possible, thereby turning the entire swamp and flood plain near the River Vistula into arable land. Furthermore, he ordered to make some 8 – 10,000 inmates available for the construction of a new Buna factory of the I.G. Farben.  He concomitantly ordered to create a PoW camp for some 100,000 Russian PoWs in the Birkenau area.
Like other intellectual movements, Holocaust revisionism has advanced in responding to challenges. Revisionist scholarship on Auschwitz, for example, advanced immensely in the course of responding to the challenges contained in the writings of Jean-Claude Pressac.[1] Yet in the Holocaust debate, this kind of fruitful discussion has been very much the exception to the rule. More often than not, the Holocaust establishment has preferred to avoid confrontation, saying that debate would give “deniers” legitimacy.
This article will discuss attempts by chemists to discredit scientific reports which disprove the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau during World War II.
Eventually Elie, his father and some other prisoners are transferred to Buna. And here Elie makes a striking statement. On the one hand he says Buna looks like it was suffering from an epidemic, but on the other hand he says its sparse population of prisoners were well-clad and walking about seemingly healthy. Once there, they go through the ubiquitous showers, joined by the head of the camp – a man with gray-blue eyes who looks kind and even smiles. He takes an interest in the several children who arrive with the convoy and has food brought for them. The newly arrived, meanwhile, are given new clothes. Even the veteran prisoners admit “Buna’s a very good camp,” yet seem to have misgivings about the building unit. But now we learn what might be behind the niceties of the camp commandant in regard to the children. It seems the head of Elie’s tent, a German, also likes children. And despite having an “assassin’s face,” hands like “wolf’s paws,” and so much fat he could hardly move, he too, brings the children food: bread, soup, and margarine. Elie explains why by assuming the man is a trafficker in children. He assumes he is an homosexual. Why these assumptions? Because later he would learn “there was a considerable traffic in children among homosexuals here…” It is not proven against the German mind you, nor the camp commandant, but for Elie the rumors are sufficient. And I’m sure for many of his readers, too.
"We were reluctant to bring up such horrific experiences, except that this Holocaust study marked a breakthrough. According to Yehuda, as far as her team was aware, 'This is the first evidence in humans […] of an epigenetic mark in an offspring based on preconception exposure in a parent.' […] It’s also important to note that that the study is controversial, largely because the biochemistry of gender differences is complex, and the differences found by Yehuda were small, or as she puts it, 'nuanced.' It should also be noted that without being able to spot the epigenetics involved, psychiatry had long been aware, through various studies, that the effects of PTSD can be passed on to children of Holocaust survivors."
German aerial reconnaissance photographs taken in 1944 of the Treblinka Camp also cast serious doubts on the widely accepted story that Treblinka was a mass extermination center. Discovered in 1989 in the National Archives in Washington, D.C., these photographs corroborate other evidence indicating that Treblinka was actually a transit camp. The photographs indicate that Treblinka was an extremely small camp. The camp’s alleged burial area is too small to contain the hundreds of thousands of bodies supposedly buried there. Treblinka was also not particularly well guarded or isolated. The aerial photographs show that fields where Polish farmers planted and cultivated crops were directly adjacent to the camp perimeter and were cultivated right up to the edge of the camp.[17]
In 1998, Valentina Pisanty, in a work on so-called "negationists", allowed a few devastating analyses to escape her concerning these Holocaust testimonies:
A. Yes, it has been done in the concentration camp Sachsenhausen.[6]
On 8 July, 1981, the sovereign nation of Israel became the very first country in the world to specifically outlaw “Holocaust denial.” The Israeli Knesset passed the bill, entitled “Denial of Holocaust [Prohibition Law], 5746-1986 by majority vote thereby setting a precedent which subsequently influenced European legislators to follow in suit.
In the September 2009 I wrote an op-ed for the local newspaper, The Finger Lakes Times, defining “Holocaust Denial.” I submitted it in response to the media frenzy and demonization of Iranian President Ahmadinejad, who was scheduled to address the UN General Assembly. After several delays, it was published on September 27th under a quarter-page picture of Ahmadinejad and under the headline “What do deniers really mean? (See Appendix 1)
Q. If it is so from the books of the firm that 7000 kgs. [of Zyklon-B] went to Auschwitz alone [in 1942], would that strike you as the proper quantity for disinfecting only in gas chambers?
In effect, the bill provides for any Holocaust denier to be prosecuted in Israel. Eldad has reasoned, “What I want is that if a Holocaust denier publishes a book in England, he will be considered a criminal in Israel.” Apparently there will be no amnesty for such deniers even if they should change their opinions. “Once a denier, always a denier.”[11]
Now there's a real scandal for you! Some students are no longer willing to accept on faith what their professors assure them is true about the gassing chambers, but want to learn what the evidence demonstrates. They suspect that while most survivors speak truthfully about their wartime experiences in the camps, some do not. Where do students get such ideas? There are even students who want to hear the "German" side to the Holocaust story. Unbelievable!
However, evidence in the later Doctors’ trial in Nuremberg showed that doctors in the United States performed medical experiments on prison inmates and conscientious objectors during the war. The evidence showed that large-scale malaria experiments were performed on 800 American prisoners, many of them black, from federal penitentiaries in Atlanta and state penitentiaries in Illinois and New Jersey. U.S. doctors conducted human experiments with malaria tropica, one of the most dangerous of the malaria strains, to aid the U.S. war effort in Southeast Asia.[17]
Checking as far as possible the records of the camps where Goertz had been confined, Bacque found that it had been one of a group of three in a system of 1,600, all equally bad, according to the International Committee of the Red Cross reports in the French army archives at Vincennes, Paris. Soon Bacque came upon the first hard evidence of mass deaths in U.S.-controlled camps. This evidence was found in army reports under the bland heading “Other Losses.”
Today the evidence that the so-called Holocaust happened is based almost entirely on eyewitness testimony of “Holocaust survivors.” As this article shows, such eyewitness testimony has consistently proved to be extremely unreliable.
The German capitulation brought mass arrests. Thousands of members of the Nasjonal Samling Party were seized, some whose only “crime” had been party membership. By July 1 [1945] Norwegian prisons and concentration camps were filled to overflowing with 14,000 new inmates. By the end of the year more than 90,000 persons were arrested, investigated, or interrogated for wartime activities. More than half this number—46,000—eventually were convicted of wartime offenses…Thirty Norwegian collaborators and 15 Germans were sentenced to death for wartime treason or atrocities.[30]
[20] Mattogno, Carlo and Nyiszli, Miklos, An Auschwitz Doctor’s Eyewitness Account: The Bestselling Tall Tales of Dr. Mengele’s Assistant Analyzed, Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2020, pp. 391-407. https://shop.codoh.com/book/an-auschwitz-doctors-eyewitness-account-en/467/
“Three gas chambers (Nos. I, II and III), located at the northeastern end wall of the bath; one gas chamber (No. IV) immediately adjoining the bath and forming an entire building unit, as seen from the exterior. […] Two gas chambers (Nos. V and VI), located on the area between compounds 1 and 2.” [7]
In 1993, Fred Pelican published his memoirs, titled From Dachau to Dunkirk, with a dedication “to the six million who perished in the gas chambers.” A Jewish refugee in Great Britain, he had been assigned to work as a war crimes investigator, and had participated in the preparations for the Tesch trial. The account which he gave in his memoirs, however, is a pack of lies.
Q. What was the purpose of your visit to Sachsenhausen?
This brings us to Point b. If the selections where not designed to send people to the gas chambers, what purpose did they serve? Well, if a camp received hundreds of inmates in one swoop, what was the SS supposed to do? Just let those deportees walk in and do whatever they pleased? Some kind of admission procedure had to be in place where it was figured out which deportee was to be lodged in which building in which part of the camp, or who of them will even be sent to another camp. Such an admission procedure happens in every prison and camp in every country. That wasn’t any different at Auschwitz. Having physicians involved to assess the health of incoming deportees makes sense, too. A detailed analysis of the surviving documentation clearly shows in this regard as well that there was nothing sinister or unusual about those selections at Auschwitz.[9]
A few months later SOE reported with satisfaction that this sib had been picked up by Vatican Radio. Moreover, Elizabeth Wiskemann – a Swiss-based, Anglo-German journalist, historian and MI6 operative – had acquired “fresh evidence supplied by Austrian-born Swiss who had just returned from visiting Vienna to the effect that all elderly people in Vienna were in terror.”[25]
Firstly, those today with little understanding of the nature of Marxism-Leninism remain puzzled as to the purpose of the executions. The communist belief is that the 'intelligentsia' of all nations represent a threat—real or theoretical, present or future—to the 'dictatorship of the proletariat', i.e. the nomenclature referencing the Soviet ruling elite, and must be 'liquidated' en masse. In other words, an entire class of people who represent the most intelligent, able, creative, and active members of society are to be physically exterminated. Such genocide has occurred everywhere the Soviets have taken over, and Poland was not to be an exception.
“To those who still doubt, the following question can be asked: if Auschwitz was merely a simple ‘labor camp,’ then what were those ‘field furnaces,’ the ‘gassing rooms,’ the ‘mortuary chambers’ and the ‘bathing installations’; what purposes did the ‘material for special treatment’ or ‘material for the resettlement of the Jews’ really serve, which was ordered from the Cyklon factory at Dessau in thousands of kilograms; why were considerable quantities of firewood transported by truck to the Sonderkommando, while at the same time thousands of tons of coke were delivered to the cremation furnaces?”
Finally, let us examine the question of the transfer of 1,408 Gypsies from Camp BIIe and Blocks 10 and 11 of Auschwitz Camp. Romanov draws attention to the entry dated 23 May 1944 of the Kalendarium, which states:
The story had its beginnings, of course, before the facts—facts, indeed, that never did occur, not in German-controlled areas nor anywhere else, if only because of the numerous physical impossibilities or impracticalities involved. The earliest “reports” came via Polish agents who had, in some cases, actually visited or been imprisoned in concentration camps on Polish territory, by clandestine radio transmissions to the Polish government-in-exile in London[3]. These initially entailed mass killings by an improbable panoply of exotic means including electroshock, steam, engine exhausts, “gas vans,” and eventually the potentially lethal insecticide, Zyklon-B. The passage of time and the penetration of evidence-based inquiry have ineluctably eroded away the electroshock and steam mythologies, and are doing so to Diesel exhaust (which isn’t toxic), and “gas vans” (lack of evidence, and practicality), but the accounts alleging carbon monoxide (expensively available in low concentrations in the exhaust from gasoline engines) and Zyklon-B (unlikely on a dozen scores, including high time requirements for the processing of “batches” of killings) march on with nary a hitch, so compelling are the interests whose defense absolutely requires some credible vehicle with which to promote the tragedy of the mass injustice that befell the racial foes cited in National Socialist ideological rantings.
Intercepted letters from Swiss civilians during August 1941 showed that they were innocently passing on versions of the gas-chamber story. One wrote:
Mid-summer, Warsaw. Partly sunny, mild—a nice day to visit a death camp. I had just finished with an academic conference in the suburbs of Warsaw, and had one free day (a Tuesday) before moving on to my next European engagement. This was very fortunate, as I knew that the Treblinka concentration camp was only some 100 km away, and I was very much hoping for a chance to see it in person. My local Polish contacts were supportive, if slightly puzzled why an American professor of humanities would bother visiting a place “with nothing there to see.” But I insisted, and so they complied. A Polish colleague, Lech, agreed to travel with me. He had no car, so we booked a taxi—reasonably priced, considering the distance—and by 9:30 am we were on our way to Treblinka.
A scientific study was eventually conducted in 1988 concerning the homicidal gas chambers allegedly used in the German concentration camps. The Canadian government had charged Ernst Zündel with the criminal offense of knowingly disseminating false news (history, in this case) about “the Holocaust.” As part of his defense in this trial, Zündel commissioned the American-gas-chamber expert Fred Leuchter to make a scientific examination of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek. The resulting Leuchter Report is the first scientific study of the alleged German homicidal gas chambers.[3]
An innovative idea that seems to be gaining momentum throughout the world media is that a sovereign nation is ‘outside the family of respectable nations’ if it fails to adopt Holocaust Denial laws or expresses solidarity with nations where such laws are already a fait accompli. For example, Holocaust Denial is routinely used as a pretext for inciting public hostility and contempt toward the nation of Iran and its recently re-elected President, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
The Dachau tribunal was composed of eight senior U.S. military officers with the rank of at least full colonel. The president of the court, Brig. Gen. John M. Lentz, was the former commanding general of the 3rd Army’s 87th Infantry Division.[2] These U.S. military officers, with no formal legal training, were not qualified to objectively review the evidence presented in the trial.
It has been widely known ever since the illegal abduction of Adolf Eichmann in Argentina that the Israeli Mossad has immense capabilities. Given the fact that Chief Public Prosecutor Fritz Bauer was a Zionist Jew, which should have precluded him from heading the pretrial investigation, it is quite possible that the forces of international Jewry were able to murder Richard Baer in his jail. Conveniently, the Auschwitz Trial in Frankfurt, Germany began almost immediately after Baer’s death. With Baer’s death the prosecutors at the trial were able to obtain their primary objective—to reinforce the gas-chamber myth and establish it as an unassailable historical fact.[20]
I have catalogued these very early references to homicidal gassings because they indicate that Victor Cavendish-Bentinck believed he had good reason, in August 1943, to disbelieve stories about mass murders of Poles and Jews in gas chambers. It is of course illegal in many European countries to express such a view today.
Even if it is proven that Demjanjuk served as a guard at Sobibor, there is no evidence he ever contributed to the process by which Jews were murdered in “gas chambers”—because there is no credible evidence the “gas chambers” of Sobibor ever existed. And for those hardcore believers in the traditional Sobibor extermination story, who still insist that the “gas chambers” existed, it is up to them to provide the physical proof of their assertions, something they cannot do.
Thomas stated that Leuchter’s opinion in the report was that there were never any gassings or exterminations carried on in the facilities. He held that Leuchter was not capable of giving that opinion. (32-9049) Nor was he capable of testifying regarding the results of the analysis of the samples. His testimony was restricted to the taking of the samples and who he turned them over to. (32-9047, 9048) Leuchter was allowed to testify with respect to his own work, his observations of the camps and the information he had gathered concerning the facilities, and whether the facilities were feasible as gas chambers. (32-9054) Defence counsel was instructed not to refer to the Leuchter Report during the in-chief examination. Thomas held that Leuchter had no expertise whatsoever in crematories and disallowed any testimony relating to crematories. (32-9052, 9054)
The importance of Amaudruz’s trial and conviction and the keen interest with which it has been followed, has been widely acknowledged in both the Swiss national and international press. A man of advanced years, Amaudruz nonetheless represents a threat to society, as do all Holocaust deniers…There can be no doubt that the fight must be continued against all Holocaust-deniers and racists for the simple reason that those who forget the past, are condemned to relive it.[36]
The “Nazi extermination camp” mythology was declared “historical truth” at the Nuremberg trials, and it was then used as an ideological cornerstone for the Allied installed governments in postwar Germany. Since the German government is based upon the “Nazi gas chamber” ideology, to dispute it in a German court is virtually impossible.
Ten of these 48 pictures are of, or in, concentration camps. One picture’s caption alleges that the subjects are about to be shot. No pictures of gas chambers, nor any even of crematoria. As can be seen, the Holocaust is basically absent. This not at all surprising; all establishment historians employ the same tactic when it comes to photos. They either omit them entirely or show some irrelevant ones. Because they know that a picture is worth a thousand words. In this case, its absence is worth even more.
Unfortunately, the document exists only in English translation, at least as far as the files of the Tesch trial are concerned. However, the phrase “gassing apparatus” is almost certainly a translation of “Vergasungsapparat”, which recalls the well known use of that term’s plural in Nuremberg Document NO-365. The reference in that document has been variously interpreted by orthodox holocaust historians as a reference to stationary gas chambers[192] or as a reference to the use of gas vans.[193] The fact that the term Vergasungsapparat was indeed used in Riga in the context of delousing sheds light on the proper interpretation of this document. This applies regardless of the authenticity of the document, as an inauthentic document is likely to have been constructed from modified authentic materials, from which the term Vergasungsapparat would have been obtained.
Viktor Frankl’s book Man’s Search for Meaning has been ranked by the Library of Congress as one of the 20th century’s 10 most influential books in the United States. Frankl described his experiences at Auschwitz in this book as if he had spent many months there. In reality, Frankl was in Auschwitz only for a few days in October 1944 while in transit from Theresienstadt to a sub-camp of Dachau. Frankl admitted this to the American evangelist Robert Schuller: “I was in Auschwitz only three or four days…I was sent to a barrack and we were all transported to a camp in Bavaria.”[20] Frankl’s short time in Auschwitz is substantiated by the prisoner log from the sub-camp of Dachau, Kaufering III, which listed Frankl’s arrival on October 25, 1944, six days after his departure from Theresienstadt.[21] Thus, Frankl’s descriptions of his long stay at Auschwitz in Man’s Search for Meaning are false and misleading.
These two men claimed they heard these statements from Adolf Eichmann, but Eichmann later disputed that he ever made these statements.[18] Thus, the prosecution’s claim at the IMT that 6 million Jews died during World War II is based solely on hearsay evidence from two German SS-bureaucrats seeking to escape or mitigate punishment whose only source later said that he never made the statement. Most courts would not have accepted such hearsay testimony as evidence. However, the IMT, in keeping with Article 23 of their charter, deemed this hearsay evidence to have “probative value” and so admitted it into evidence.[19]
In the book, Venezia only added that the door "to the inside was protected by a few iron bars to keep the victims from breaking the glass"[146]—a detail which is however taken from a drawing by D. Olère, to which I will return shortly—which shows precisely the open door to the gas chamber with the spy-hole protected on the inside by a square grill[147]. The drawing, in turn, is freely inspired by the gas-tight door with spy-hole equipped on the inside with a hemispheric protection grid, which was found in the Bauhof (construction materials warehouse) of Auschwitz in 1945, as appears in the photographs reproduced by Pressac[148]. Without going into further detail, I will restrict myself to noting that the door of Leichenkeller1 (supposed gas chamber) of Crematorium III was built without a protection grid.
There has also been a trend to reduce the importance of the gas chambers in the Holocaust story. In his book Why Did the Heavens Not Darken?: The “Final Solution” in History, Princeton University professor Arno J. Mayer wrote: “From 1942 to 1945, certainly at Auschwitz, but probably overall, more Jews were killed by so-called ‘natural’ causes than by ‘unnatural’ ones.”[26] In the same book Dr. Mayer admits that “Sources for the study of the gas chambers are at once rare and unreliable.”[27]
Chapter 4 is dedicated to Auschwitz. Here he recounts his time at Birkenau, the place where “millions of human beings died” (p. 64). Presuming this means at least two millions, Buergenthal vastly overestimates even the current traditionalist thinking on this matter—which places total deaths at 1.1 to 1.25 million people (90% being Jews). Or perhaps this was an unconscious throwback to the pre-1990 days, when “four million people” allegedly died at Auschwitz.
In another removed passage Captain Freud expounded on the converted shower theory that dominated thinking about gas chambers at the time.[41] (He also made such a sketch and description of gassing showers during the interrogation of TESTA employee Johann Holst.[42])
“Before 1941, you hadn’t heard anything. Between 1942 and 1945, I was already here [in America]. I arrived here with great difficulty with my mother on September 12, 1941. My mother had gone to France right after my father’s death. My sister was nine years younger than me. She was killed. [While] they were still in Marseilles, she had a baby. Eventually she couldn’t feed her child any longer and she didn’t want to go on anymore. So she took the child to a children’s home. Then she was picked up during a raid and sent to a temporary camp in Nancy, and from there to Poland and the gas chamber. That she was deported is something I only know about from books.” (p. 13)
She simply made that up. There is no evidence that any revisionist scholar ever did what she claims here, since Lipstadt gives no example and quotes no source. You just have to believe her! Fact is, however, that
In a document prepared for the Penguin Books/Deborah Lipstadt team in the famous UK High Court action brought and lost by David Irving, Browning argued in effect that a convergence of evidence proved the Sobibor extermination story despite the many contradictions and inconsistencies in eyewitness testimonies. However, Grubach argued in contrast that ‘A series of false testimonies can converge on a falsehood.’
The fact that Ferencz threatened and humiliated his witness and reported as much to his superior officer indicates that he operated in a culture where such illegal methods were acceptable.[5] Any Harvard law graduate knows that such evidence is not admissible in a legitimate court of law.
“There is circumstantial evidence to the effect that a portion of the victims of the Majdanek concentration camp were killed by suffocation in a specially converted van. It is assumed that these murders were committed in a disinfection van which belonged to the camp or in a gas-van belonging to the commander of the security police and security service at Lublin. Some detainees claimed that it operated between the city and the camp. ” (p. 225, my emphasis).
Germany’s enemies owned or had access to many dense information networks in German-occupied Europe: secret-service agents, underground resistance organizations, the Catholic Church, Jewish organizations, the Red Cross, to name only a few. Had a Holocaust been going on, they would have known. Yet the way they acted clearly indicates that they had no serious, trustworthy, reliable information about it.
As to the question what we are learning in school when history is taught, I can answer simply with the term National Socialism. Nothing else seems to matter. Everything about the Second World War really gets on my nerves. It is always the same. They start with Hitler, then we talk about Anne Frank, and on the day when we should take a walk in the forest, we have to go and see the movie Schindler’s List instead. And this continues when we go to church where in place of learning our religious confirmation instructions we are taught more about the “Holocaust.” The final result is obviously that we just don’t want to hear about that stuff anymore. It drains us emotionally, and eventually leads to callousness.[22]
Orwell was fearful that “the poisonous effect of the Russian mythos” made it “doubtful whether a true history of our times can ever be written.” He would have had to admit that he was too pessimistic if he had lived to see the comprehensive exposure of communist totalitarianism during the next sixty years by Alexandr Solzhenitsyn and many others. No doubt some details have been permanently lost, just as some evidence for Holocaust revisionism may be, but enough remains and is on the public record for future defenders of revisionists to celebrate and build upon their achievements.
”In the course of the investigation it has been ascertained that in September/October 1941 14,000 Soviet prisoners of war were shot at the Sachsenhausen camp. In addition to the mass annihilation of Soviet prisoners of war in the camp, the Hitlerites also put to death captured soldiers and officers of the allied countries.”
"Moreover, Polish‐American gentiles here are also displeased that they are not represented on President Carter's Commission on the Holocaust. Spokesmen say they are also disturbed by the comments of Sigmund Strochlitz, a commission member from New London and a survivor of Auschwitz who, at a Holocaust Commemoration last April 27 in the Senate chambers of the General Assembly, spoke of 'Nazi executioners and their Polish helpers'." (D. Henry, New York Times, 23 September 1979)
Rudolf Höss appears on several pages, but when it comes to gas chambers (details, construction, executions), his testimony is simply non-existent. Miklos Nyiszli, another top witness, appears three times. But what did Rees consider worthy of mentioning? A dinner (p. 326), a football game (p. 328) and an experiment of Mengele (p. 359). You read that right. Next witness, Yankel Wiernik: only one quote (p. 345), and that regarding the escape from the camp. So on to Rudolf Vrba, where we find this:
If that actually was Irving’s intention, it certainly paid off in spite of the defeat he suffered in court, because one can henceforth concentrate on what appear to be the essential arguments in the case for Auschwitz.  Before we consider some of them in more detail, it is worthwhile noting van Pelt’s explicit statement that the official history of the camp, i.e. what was said about it once the Soviets had reached it, started with an outright invention and a monumental error, which some other people might be tempted to call a lie. The former is the statement by the reporter working for the Soviet party newspaper Pravda (Truth) that a high-voltage conveyor belt first electrocuted the victims and then dropped them into a blast furnace. The latter is the figure of 4 million victims announced in the Soviet special report published in May 1945. Until the fall of the Soviet empire, this figure was inscribed on metal tablets in the Auschwitz camp for all visitors to see; the figure has since been drastically reduced. The “Death Factory” with its mass electrocutions and subsequent hellish fire was later dropped in favor of the notionally more realistic gas chambers and crematoria.
Glazar on the other hand writes that the clearing of “the woods around the perimeter of the camp” began during the period when the final transports from the liquidated Warsaw ghetto arrived,[28] i.e. in April 1943.[29] According to Holocaust historian Yitzhak Arad, all interred corpses had been exhumed and cremated by the end of July 1943.[30] Arad concur that the cremations at Treblinka began at earnest in April,[31] so that the wood could have been air-dried for at maximum 4 months, which corresponds to a not even half-seasoned state. Since it is alleged that on average 7,000 corpses were cremated daily,[32] the felled wood would have had to be used almost immediately, so that the cremation at Treblinka of allegedly more than 800,000 corpses was “in fact” carried out using green wood as fuel. It follows that significantly more than 2.8 square kilometers of forest – perhaps 4 or even 5 – would have had to be cut down to fill the fuel requirement. The wooded areas north of the camp would therefore have been completely gone at the time the 1944 air photos were taken.
A point of similarity between the two dramas is that in both cases, the champions of the taboo are palpably aligned with specific religions. In the one case, it is the standing institution of the Catholic Church that opposed publication of the sins of its agents, while in the other it is the ubiquitous agency of worldwide Jewry that harbors the often-invisible defenders of the ramparts of Holocaustery. The Catholic Church has surrendered in the present drama, and is doing penance for its institutional sin of deception as it, above all others, knows how to do. At such time as the Holocaust taboo is defeated, more-likely with a whimper than with a bang, there will be no surrender, ever. Rather, in keeping with the character of the counter-insurgency thus far mounted, there will be the usual assortment of would-be victims shrugging, looking about innocently and intoning, “Who, me?”
In March 2007, I [received] an e-mail from Irving who informed me that he was in Poland, where he was visiting the “Aktion Reinhardt camps.” According to German wartime documents the purpose of “Aktion Reinhardt” was the confiscation of Jewish property. Without a shred of documentary or material evidence, the orthodox historians claim that the real purpose of this action was the physical liquidation of the Jews of Eastern Poland and that between 1.5 and 2 million Jews were killed with carbon monoxide from diesel engines in three camps: Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka. Traditional history has it that these camps were pure extermination centers where all Jews, regardless of age and health, were gassed upon arrival without registration: only a handful of strong young Jews were temporarily spared because they were needed to keep the camps running.
During World War Two “the Germans” are not only claimed to have murdered millions in stationary gas chambers, but they are also said to have used mobile gas chambers for their evil ends: the infamous “gas vans.” Orthodox holocaust historian Gerald Fleming has reproduced a photograph of a derelict van found in Poland, and he added a caption to it reading: “Gas van used to liquidate Jews at the Kulmhof (Chelmno) extermination camp and near Konitz.” He gave no specific source for this photo, though.[1]
How many field crematoria were used during the “Russenaktion” remains unclear. According to the crematorium worker Paul Sakowski there were altogether four ovens. Two of them were reportedly sent to other camps during the war. The film “Todeslager Sachsenhausen” (“Death camp Sachsenhausen”) (1946) shows the two remaining field crematoria which had in the meantime been moved to the open air. Apparently there were no more such crematoria in Sachsenhausen in 1945, otherwise the Soviet investigators or the film crew from DEFA[24] would undoubtedly have set up them in a row (illustration 4).
’In 1941 all commandants were sent to Sachsenhausen in order to decide upon the speediest way to dispose of the Russian politruks and commissars. The Russian politruks and commissars were taken into a special building, and to the loud roaring of a loudspeaker each of them was led into the execution chamber. On the opposite side of the chamber there was a slit along which there was a movable [illegible handwritten word] device. Through this slit, the victim was shot in the back of the neck. This way of execution had been invented by Oberführer Loritz. Two SS-Oberscharführer were always standing next to the doomed; after the shot they threw the dead body on a board, and while others opened the door, they callously threw the body on a pile. Opposite the corpse building, eight mobile crematoria were constantly in operation. Every day 1,500 to 2,000 people were killed´” [Shn-5, p. 7/2].
“Predictably, a written order by Hitler for the ‘Final Solution’ was not found. The presumption that a single, explicit written order had ever been given had long been dismissed by most historians.”
Let us further consider some other implications of the Vatican’s proclamations. On February 12, Benedict XVI claimed that “it is clear that every negation or minimization of this terrible crime [the Holocaust] is intolerable and at the same time unacceptable.”[20]
From the present time, Novick might be tested as to whether he was prescient. But he undertook no prescience, as such. He merely stated, in terms well-supported and trenchantly defended, reasons why he felt trends in the uses being made by various interests (most of them Jewish and/or Israeli) boded ill for the future, in which prediction he was resoundingly correct. But perhaps the greatest value of his work comes from: (a) cataloging and interpreting all the various uses the Holocaust was subject to in America since at least 1938; and (b) tracing and analyzing the changes in those manifold uses and identifying their impetuses in a manner quite befitting a professional historian.
[30] Weber, Mark, “The Nuremberg Trials and the Holocaust,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 12, No. 2, Summer 1992, p. 170.
As to the capacity of communist governments to produce false or tainted evidence for political purposes, another authority is Chapman Pincher, who published a whole book on the topic in 1985.[70] In his introduction Pincher wrote: ‘To Western politicians war is the continuation of politics by other means. To the Politburo, with its ideological compulsion to invert reality as free societies see it – which is what I call the “upside-down ploy” – politics is the continuation of war by other means. These other means, now known in the Soviet jargon as “active measures”, form the major subject of this book. They comprise sophisticated techniques of deception, disinformation, forgery, blackmail, subversion, penetration and manipulation, the insidious use of agents of influence, the organisation of mass demonstrations with the promotion of violence and other criminal acts and even military violations. The scale on which this underhand offensive is being relentlessly pursued in the Politburo’s game-plan against countries of the free world… is far greater and much more menacing than is generally appreciated, especially as so little is being done to combat it.’[71]
In addition, Nyiszli knew nothing of the alleged “Bunker 2”: according to him, this Polish farmhouse was not transformed into a homicidal gas chamber by the SS, but, rather, into an “undressing room” for the victims of the “cremation pits”, who were then killed with a pistol shot to the back of the neck.
It might be true that Wiesenthal was the first to specify that there were “5 million” non-Jewish victims, but the specific claim of “5 million” is not what matters. As far as numbers are concerned, what matters for the defense of Trump's Holocaust Day statement is that significant numbers of non-Jews are included in the death toll of alleged Nazi barbarity.
[29] Wear, John, “Eyewitness Testimony to the Genocide of European Jewry,” Inconvenient History, Vol 12, No. 1, 2020 at https://www.inconvenienthistory.com/12/1/7237. See also Wear, John, “Eyewitnesses to the Treblinka Gas Chambers,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 10, No. 3, 2018 at https://www.inconvenienthistory.com/10/3/6243.
Carlo Mattogno concludes: “Orthodox Holocaust historiography has never proven that the authorities of the Reich planned and carried out a general plan on an institutional level to eliminate the bodies of the victims of the Einsatzgruppen and other associated units by means of a systematic operation of exhumation and cremation of bodies.”[27]
However, Bacque also sustained vociferous criticism from establishment historians and the mass media after the publication of Other Losses. Bacque was never intimidated by such criticism, and later found corroborating evidence in the Soviet archives. Bacque wrote: “Among all of the many editors, writers, TV producers and professors all over Europe and North America who have furiously denounced the author of Other Losses since 1989, not one has ever commented on his subsequent amazing discoveries in the Soviet archives.”[4]
Only at Buchenwald does Hitchcock's film say that Jews were killed for being Jews:
Most people who were aware of [the IHR’s] existence dismissed it as a conglomeration of Holocaust deniers, neo-Nazis, philo-Germans, right-wing extremists, antisemites, racists, and conspiracy theorists. (p. 137)
Responding to the clicks of multiple cameras, Roeder proclaimed that only his Christian faith would be able to help him resist the overwhelming preponderance of Jewish influence which threatened to squeeze the life out of Germany. Brandishing a Bible in his hands, the 72-year-old Roeder obligingly held it aloft at the request of media photographers and proclaimed: “The Bible is my last defense against Jewish tyranny, since other recognized forms of evidence are not permitted.”[40]
“Early July 1942. Birkenau is meshed with barbed wire, giving it the appearance of a huge spider’s web. I can see that a central road divides the camp in two. On the right sprawls a vast area under construction – the gouged ground ready for new drains and foundations. Meanwhile, prefabricated wooden huts stand already completed. On each of them shines a bright enamelled square containing large, black German script: ‘Pferde Baracken’ – ‘Horse Barracks’. On the left of the road I see the entrance to the women’s camp. Behind it, separated by barbed wire, is that of the men. In both these compounds big new structures have been built alongside the original brick barracks – they look just like the stables opposite. Now I look straight ahead: the only road crossing the camp from east to west terminates at a small grove immediately beyond its limits – the gas chambers and crematorium are situated there. This is the appearance of the Birkenau camp – ‘Auschwitz II’ – as our truck approaches. I am one of a large group of prisoners being driven from Central Auschwitz ...” (p. 104)
“The soldiers out there on the front knew effectively nothing about the concentration camps and the mass murder of the Jews. I cannot imagine that [they had known]. I would have been aware of that. Especially since I came from a very different political past, I would have heard about that. A large number of people really didn’t know anything. I myself didn’t know where Sachsenhausen was or Auschwitz. That really was only known by people with inside information. When we were in Poland, we heard absolutely nothing [about the murder of the Jews], no rumors, absolutely nothing.”
The Allies were in danger of losing the justification of this war, this 'crusade', by the way they had waged it. Prominent Jewish leaders in Washington realized that this right could not be upheld simply by forcing Germany (as 25 years earlier) to accept guilt for the war. On the initiative of Henry Morgenthau, the first plans to prove Hitler conducted a large-scale genocide appeared at the end of 1943. The 'War Crimes Working Group' was created, which initially contented itself with proving the intention of genocide from published Nazi writings. But even before the invasion, several thousand Jews were trained as 'interrogators' in crash courses and enrolled in the US Army with commissions as officers. Their task was to 'hear' a certain category of Germans according to predetermined guidelines and to form an indictment against National Socialism with a torrent of 'statements' and 'confessions' that should arouse and horrify the entire world. Initially, the Nazi crimes to be investigated were to affect all peoples equally, but in the course of time Chaim Weizman and leading Zionists succeeded in so deflecting the investigations that they above all a yielded a tremendous blood sacrifice of Jews. In March 1945, the number of eleven million Jews was established, under whose auspices the first interrogations actually began. Objections to this obviously impossible figure came from the ranks of Judaism itself and eventually led to a decline to SIX MILLION. This is where the first directorial mistakes arose, which initially made fools of individual personalities around the world and subsequently led to critical investigations of the Jewish claims. The irredeemably gullible part of Jewry, personified in the Bavarian State Commissioner Philipp Auerbach, stubbornly held to the 11 million figure relying on the seemingly complete victory over Germany. The interrogation machine that had been launched achieved a total result of more than 190 million people killed. When the results of the 'witness statements' were compiled for the first time in the evaluation center and this figure was reached, it was outrageous. Hitler would have to have destroyed virtually the entire European population subject to German occupation. But this population remained present and alive.  Although the overall result was immediately classified Top Secret, it leaked out. Investigations by congressional and senate committees were the result and later led to the dismissal of the 'interrogators'. Well-known Jewish columnists such as Blau and Lippman wisely stepped out and - as they hoped, in time - began to walk it back. Blau spoke of ‘a slick swindle’. But it was apparently already too late, the suspicion of an outrageous fraud had arisen.
Yet, Sobibor historian Yitzhak Arad claims the path (the “tube”) that led from the reception area for Jews (Lager II) to the extermination area (Lager III) was 150 meters long. Arad adds: “Halfway through the ‘tube’ was the ‘barber shop,’ a barrack where the hair of the Jewish women was cut before they entered the gas chambers.”[99]
“The facts of the Holocaust are clear; the suffering of its millions of victims is beyond reasonable dispute. It is evidenced by the words and writings of those who escaped the machinery of death, and indeed of those who devised it and kept it in running order. The documentary and architectural proof is overwhelming. Films demonstrate the conditions of the concentration camps; there are witness statements of those who liberated Bergen-Belsen, Auschwitz and the other places in which the human capacity for evil had been given a new definition. As if that were not enough, the events have been subjected to judicial examination – ranging from the trial of the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg to trials in the 21st century; proceedings in which the killings, torture and mistreatment received meticulous examination and had to withstand scrutiny under adversarial systems.” (p. 1)
In 1987 W. Höttl, beset by his compatriots’ criticism or requests for clarification about the words he had ascribed to his colleague Eichmann, began to retreat. He suddenly claimed that it was under the influence of alcohol that the latter had spoken; he had, apparently, let Eichmann drink profusely of his favorite apricot-based Hungarian spirit, barack (Welt am Sonntag, March 8, 1987, p. 2). I wrote to him at his home in Altaussee in Austria, where he was a school principal. I got him to promise to see me on two consecutive days in the company of an Austrian called R. M. On February 3, 1989 R. M. and I were received in Höttl’s office. I had not hidden anything about my revisionist beliefs from him. I asked him some questions about his August 1944 interview with Eichmann. I let him talk at length, but suddenly I told him that, for at least two reasons, I did not believe the contents of his affidavit: firstly, six million Jews killed by July or August 1944, when there were still about nine months of war to come, would imply for the whole duration of the war an even higher figure than the already huge and unproved one of six million (the equivalent of the population of a country like Switzerland); then, I noted in the same affidavit a word that seemed an anachronism – and it is well known that in history anachronism is one of the signs of falsehood. The word in question was Vernichtungslagern, that is, “extermination camps.” It is precisely the German translation of an American neologism, “extermination camps,” having first appeared in Washington in November 1944 in the famous “War Refugee Report” or “Auschwitz Protocol[s]”, which the world owes to the mythomaniac “Holocaust” witness Rudolf Vrba (http://www.holocaustresearchproject.org/othercamps/auschproto.html). It is most unlikely that Eichmann should have used such an expression in August 1944 in Budapest.
Sevillias has no personal experience with gas chambers. His information is derived from his son-in-law who supposedly worked at Crematorium II or III. Here is his description:
The “Holocaust” was truly a great crime. But justice has not been served. Only by relentlessly pursuing the truth can we achieve reconciliation, punish the liars, manipulators, and deceivers, clear the guilt of the past, and move ahead as civil nations. Our very future depends upon it.
In the final analysis then, it must be conceded that what, apparently makes the Jewish Holocaust ‘unique’ are the aspects of it that, at Nuremberg at least, were the least satisfactorily proven. The plan to rid the world of Jews and the homicidal gas chambers were not evidenced convincingly. When one bears in mind the nature of wartime propaganda and the imbalance and subjectivity of the trial, it is easy to see how such claims were accepted. By categorizing them as ‘facts of common knowledge’ the court decreed that relatively flimsy evidence would suffice. It is history’s job, so far willfully ignored, to pick the bones out of this.
For the Polish nation, not only does the Holocaust mythology serve as a cornerstone of Polish nationalism, a useful ideological weapon against Germany, a “justification” for anti-German hostility, and a source of much needed revenue for its sometimes sluggish economy, it also provides a "safeguard" against any future German demand that Poland give back the disputed territories to Germany. Many Poles fear in their hearts that the post-war state of Poland stands and falls with Auschwitz.
As for the “bad news” reported by Neustadt it must be noted that Croatian Jews by that time had not yet been deported to Auschwitz. In Romania the Jews of the annexed Bessarabia and Bukovina had been deported to crowded and disease-ridden ghettos in Romanian-occupied Transnistria.
To begin, in 1979, a group of 34 French academics signed a joint statement that was most revealing of their inability to describe the operation of “the magical gas chamber” (Louis-Ferdinand Céline); they pitifully declared: “One must not ask oneself how, technically, such a mass-murder was possible. It was technically possible, since it happened” (Le Monde, February 21, 1979, p. 23). In 1985 Raul Hilberg, the most eminent historian of the “Holocaust,” finally acknowledged that there was, after all, no known evidence of the reality of any order, plan or  organization aiming at the physical destruction of the European Jews and, in order to continue upholding that fiction nonetheless, he decided to resort to some astonishing explanations in the vein of what might be called “group parapsychology” (see below). In 1995 Jean-Claude Pressac, Serge Klarsfeld’s liege man, definitively laid down his arms (see below). In the years thereafter something of a general desertion or rout could be observed among historians of the “Holocaust”: feigning ignorance of what, in 1968 in her main academic dissertation, the Jewish historian Olga Wormser-Migot had herself been compelled to call “the problem of the gas chambers” and passing over in silence a number of other historical “problems” of that kind, they were content to repeat the purely gratuitous statements of the judges at Nuremberg and, for the most part, did not venture to look for historical and scientific evidence of their “Holocaust.”
Despite, or perhaps because of, his accomplishments, Leuchter was targeted for public vilification, stigmatized, driven from his home, divested of his property and denied his fundamental right to “life, liberty and pursuit of happiness.” In fact, no American in recent memory has been as vilified as Fred Leuchter, simply due to the reason that, upon completing his investigation of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, he concluded that the facilities could not possibly have been used as homicidal gas chambers.
Just as the emphasis on non-Jewish victims was important in war propaganda, it seems likely that a nod to non-Jewish victims was helpful in gaining public acquiescence for a museum to commemorate the Holocaust. The proposal to build a museum on 1.9 acres of invaluable federal land close to the Washington Monument would likely have provoked much more criticism if it had been represented as specifically about Jews.
So, how did the Nazis dispose of the bodies of the Jewish murder victims? Holocaust expert Hilberg claimed that no crematoria ovens were ever installed; the bodies were burned in mass graves.[57] Nevertheless, Dr. Joseph Tenenbaum, the Jewish leader who carried out a fact-finding mission in Poland from April to June 1946, “established” a different and contradictory version of events. He wrote: “The crematorium [at Sobibor] was fenced in. After the gassing, the victims’ bodies were tossed into pits and sprinkled with chlorine powder. The pits were open and the stench escaped into the air. This fact compelled the Germans to build a modern stench-free crematorium.”[58] (This information was gleaned from Sobibor inmate Leon Feldhendler, who was said to have been chosen by the Germans for “special work.” This could mean that he was chosen to work around the “gas chambers.”)
Thus the term “Holocaust denier” is misleading, nebulously defined and a misnomer in view of the fact that there exists no consensus of opinion even among mainstream historians or revisionists in respect to a uniform definition of the Holocaust. Nevertheless, this elusive, nebulous definition of the Holocaust and Holocaust denial is precisely what animates and facilitates the job of prosecutors whose primary task appears to be limited to an arbitrary application of the law directed against those deemed politically undesirable.
The allegation that Jews were gassed on their way to Sobibor with chlorine has been quietly discarded by the Holocaust promoters—an implicit admittance that it must be false.
And on and on. Those of us who have served in the military know very well what kind of a rumor factory a camp can be. All sorts of things are spread from one person to the next. Nobody questions what he hears, and usually he asks someone else for confirmation who is just as clueless. Needless to say, the misinformation problem was much worse in a concentration camp with the crematories next door, in the middle of a war. And the prisoners had no way of knowing the truth.
While the Judisk Krönika had reported of mass killings in Majdanek and Auschwitz in November 1943[96] and about the “death chambers” of Treblinka (where “many thousands of Jews have been killed”) in September 1943[97] as well as in its May-June 1944 issue[98], the above quoted passage demonstrates that one still believed a large number of Western Jews, including Dutch, Belgian and French Jews, to be present in the occupied eastern territories. As for the claim that the Germans executed thousands of Western Jews in Vilna in 1944, as well as similar claims elsewhere, the question of the eventual fate of the deportees to the eastern territories will be addressed in the concluding part of this article; here it will suffice to point out that if the Soviets at the end of the war had discovered remains of hundreds of thousands or even millions of deported Western and Polish Jews in mass graves on formerly German-occupied Soviet territory, they could easily have dispensed with the vapid claims about gas chambers and extermination camps and presented concrete forensic evidence at the Nuremberg trial.
A year after Aynat’s initial book on the topic was published, the Auschwitz Museum published a five-volume work on the so-called Death Books (Sterbebücher) of Auschwitz containing detailed information on almost 69,000 inmates incarcerated at Auschwitz – meaning officially registered there – who had died there. Aynat subsequently did the Herculean work of matching, one by one, the names listed on the deportation lists of transports originating in France with those listed in the Death Books in order to match them, so the fate of these deportees could be determined. His results show that many if not most of the French Jews deported to and registered at Auschwitz tragically died there, probably mainly due to the catastrophic typhus epidemic which raged in this camp starting in early 1942.[5]
In various passages and footnotes, Vidal-Naquet briefly discusses eyewitnesses who claimed they “saw gas chambers” where there were none.[23] He admits “there were imaginary gas chambers.”[24] That is, many Holocaust survivors gave false testimony, claiming there were “homicidal mass gassings” where it is now known that they never happened. He cites the false testimony “of a Protestant theologian, Charles Hauter, who was deported to Buchenwald, never saw any gas chamber, and who went on to rave about them.”[25] (Even Christian theologians can tell lies about the Holocaust, Bishop Farrell.)
These data were probably compiled by the aforementioned “Sachsenhausen Committee.” It is especially interesting that here the “gassings” resurface. Although the Institut für Zeitgeschichte had established by August 1960 that there had been no “gassings” in the concentration camps of the Old Reich – therefore not in Sachsenhausen – the attorneys at the Central Office evidently still subscribed to this wartime propaganda lie in the years which followed. The preliminary investigations for the Sachsenhausen Trial lasted from 1962 to 1970.
Especially in Poland, more and more of the related subject of the Holocaust becomes illegal to discuss in any meaningful way every day. The criminalization of the present subject would appear to be next on the docket if current trends continue. The other countries (France, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Israel, etc.) may be expected to fall in line in due course. Perhaps it might be effected by simply moving the beginning of the Holocaust from sometime after 1933 back to 1919. Or even further.
Elsewhere Blatt says the Nazis made it difficult to collect “any direct evidence” of the alleged mass exterminations in gas chambers. After the war, the information about the “gas chambers” allegedly came from inmates who spoke with other inmates who worked around the gas chambers or from “limited observations” of the extermination area from a different area of the camp. The testimony of Ukrainian and German guards filled in the rest of the story.[95]
On the issue of whether Faurisson’s claims and methodology were valid or not, the first chamber of the Paris Court of Appeals paid tribute to the quality of his research, concluding that in his essay on the “problem of the gas chambers” there was no trace of rashness, or negligence, or of his having deliberately overlooked anything, nor any trace of a lie and that, as a consequence, he was entitled to claim that the gas chambers never existed.
But there is something yet more serious: the revisionists have set forth a series of established facts proving that the physical extermination, gas chambers and six million in question cannot have existed.
“Twenty-four years ago, Deborah Lipstadt labelled Holocaust denial a ‘growing assault on truth and memory’. How has the phenomenon of Holocaust denial developed in recent years? At first glance, denial appears to be everywhere on the internet. Tap the words into Google, and the curious internet surfer will be rewarded with more than 3.4 million hits to web pages within the English speaking world alone. Yet raw search engine results tell us little about the true size of actually existing Holocaust denial, or about the vitality of so-called ‘Holocaust Revisionism’ in the present day. Closer scrutiny of Holocaust denial on the internet suggests that despite a spate of highly publicised news stories, far from growing in recent years, the ‘Revisionist’ movement is arguably in relative decline.” (p. 34)
Fred A. Leuchter author of four technical reports on the "gas chambers" of World War II standing in front of "Old Smokey" the electric chair of the Tennessee state prison at Nashville. Photo taken at the National Museum of Crime and Punishment in Washington D.C., May, 2008.
“In Birkenau they would have never given me medicine, they would have put me to the gas.” (p. 196)
Other Jews, though, also had an interest in FDR—notably, Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis and his protégé, Harvard lawyer Felix Frankfurter. Even prior to his gubernatorial win in New York, “Brandeis alerted Frankfurter to his eagerness to connect with the man he believed would someday be the nation’s president” (ibid: 72). And indeed, “for the next four years Brandeis was content to rely on Frankfurter to be his conduit to the governor’s chambers in Albany.”
On 19 May 1997, the British government transferred the decoded documents in Bletchley Park to the Public Records Office in London, thereby making them accessible to the public for research purposes.[3] Oddly, only a very few Holocaust historians were interested in the information on the concentration camps. The reason for this astonishing lack of interest is presumably due to the following remark by author Hinsley:
Certain topics have become taboo to historical investigation. Chief among these is the Holocaust. This topic has become so politically charged that open investigation is prohibited in many countries around the world with free thinkers and investigators facing criminal charges, incarceration and censorship which reminds one more of Torquemada than McCarthy.
Several attempts have been made by defenders of the Holocaust story to refute revisionist scientific studies of the alleged homicidal gas chambers. For example, Jean-Claude Pressac, a French pharmacist, wrote a book published by the Beate Klarsfeld Foundation entitled Auschwitz: Techniques and Operation of the Gas Chambers. Pressac’s book actually strengthens the revisionist view of the Holocaust story. Both explicitly and implicitly, Pressac discredits countless Holocaust claims and testimonies. Pressac writes: “This study already demonstrates the complete bankruptcy of the traditional [Holocaust] history…, a history based for the most part on testimonies, assembled according to the need of the moment, truncated to fit an arbitrary truth and sprinkled with a few German documents of uneven value and without any connection to one another.”[13]
Revisionism has a long way to go, especially in addressing the recent arrival of the so-called “Holocaust by bullets.” Surely much of interest will be uncovered in this grand intellectual adventure still awaiting us.
But is there any convincing evidence that these ”shooting rooms“ actually existed? The technical experts Blokhin, Telyaner and Grigoryev insinuate having seen them, but do not explicitly say so. Since it is routinely claimed that the SS destroyed the evidence of their atrocities before retreating, it would be very odd indeed if they had acted differently in this case. Shortly after the end of the war, former inmates (e.g. Weiss-Rüthel, Zwaart) of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp furnished a fantastic description of the “neck-shooting facility“, but they did not explain where they had got their knowledge from, access to the crematorium being strictly forbidden to unauthorized persons. Probably these testimonies did not yet exist in May/June 1945, otherwise the Soviet experts would have quoted them. It is true that a blueprint of the crematorium shows a complex of three or four tiny rooms [62] allegedly identical with the ”shooting rooms”. The catch is that this is not the original German blueprint (said to be lost); it is a Soviet blueprint allegedly based on a new measuring of the whole building, which proves precisely nothing.
And what can one say about the stories of Jews walled up alive (pp. 266-267) or suffocated with "Eiderdowns," i.e., feather-bed quilts [sic!]"? Desbois even entitles the paragraphs in question “The Shoah by Suffocation”! (p. 267).
And for good reason, as they now revealed a special secret. In the small Krematorium I, the room said to have been a homicidal “gas chamber” had in reality been a “Leichenhalle,” that is, an innocuous depository or mortuary room in which to put corpses awaiting cremation. The large Krematoriums II and III of Birkenau had possessed only “Leichenkeller,” that is depositories built partly underground to ensure a relatively cool interior. Krematoriums IV and V, also located at Birkenau, contained only harmless rooms some of which were equipped with stoves and which could never have served as “gas chambers.” At the end of prolonged studies, one after another, on Zyklon B (a product based on hydrogen cyanide gas, invented in 1922 by an assistant of the German Jewish chemist Fritz Haber and patented on December 27, 1926), the disinfecting or delousing gas chambers and, especially, the American execution gas chambers using cyanide gas, I concluded that the “testimonies” or “confessions” concerning the systematic execution of Jews in “gas chambers” ran into radical physical and chemical impossibilities.
Finally we come to Auschwitz—the single greatest killing site of the Holocaust, and the linchpin of the entire murder-mystery. Around 1 million Jews died there, according to orthodoxy, the vast majority in the gas chambers. Unlike the other camps, strangely enough, this one did not ‘vanish’; there are plenty of relevant material remains. (Odd—if there was one camp the Nazis would have wanted to make disappear, it surely would have been this one.) Also unlike the other camps, we have witnesses, survivors, documents, photos—nearly everything needed to solve the crime.
Hoffman’s humorous courtside account is filled with many bizarre persecution fantasies, which when taken together seem like a B-movie co-produced by Walt Disney, David Lynch, and Charles Manson. Hoffman cites one particularly creative “eyewitness,” Arnold Friedman, who claimed that “while in Auschwitz he saw ‘fourteen foot flames’ shooting out of the crematorium chimneys. He also gave sworn testimony that he was able to tell whether the Nazis were burning fat Jewish Hungarians or skinny Jewish poles by looking at the different colors of the smoke and flames coming out of the crematorium.” Another “eyewitness” Morris Hubert, a former inmate at Buchenwald, claimed that, “In the (Buchenwald) camp there was a cage with a bear and an eagle. Every day they would throw a Jew in there. The bear would tear him apart and the eagle would pick his bones.”
August. The pseudonym Warwick Hester publishes the article “Auf den Straßen der Wahrheit” (On the streets of truth) in Der Weg, Vol. 8, No. 8, pp. 572-578. According to Udo Walendy, who re-published the article in 1990[9], the real name of its author was Stephen F. Pinter (possibly 1888-1985), an American lawyer who had been involved in the Dachau trial. The author begins by noting that none of the accused at Nuremberg had known about the alleged extermination of Jews, and that the eyewitness testimonies presented were full of mendacious statements. He also points out that no physical evidence for the so-called “gas vans” had been presented before the court, in spite of the claim that hundreds of thousands had been killed inside those vehicles. Pinter writes that he visited all the former camps in the western zone of occupation, but did not find any credible traces of gas chambers. He spoke with fourteen (unnamed) Jewish Majdanek witnesses, who reportedly between four eyes admitted to him that they had not observed any mass gassings. Pinter further spoke with some former (likewise unnamed) SS officers in Barcelona, Kairo and Rio de Janeiro and asked them about the alleged extermination. Five of them told him that it had happened, but that two rather than six million had been killed. At further inquiry, it turned out that four of them based their opinions on hearsay. One claimed to have heard from Eichmann shortly before the end of the war that two million Jews had been killed by “special commandos”. The fifth SS man, who lived in Kairo, claimed to have partaken in a mass execution of 30,000 Jews at Crimea, but other sources maintained that the man had never been stationed there.
Wilson was answered in the Senate by Robert La Follette, and in the House by the Democratic leader Claude Kitchin, to no avail.[29] In Congress, near-hysteria reigned, as both chambers approved the declaration of war by wide margins. The political class and its associates in the press, the universities, and the pulpits ardently seconded the plunge into world war and the abandonment of the America that was. As for the population at large, it acquiesced, as one historian has remarked, out of general boredom with peace, the habit of obedience to its rulers, and a highly unrealistic notion of the consequences of America's taking up arms.[30]
A key argument against the alleged homicidal gassings in the corpse cellar of Krematorium II is the fact that the four round holes in the ceiling, through which the Zyklon B was reportedly introduced into the "gas chamber”, do not exist. To this argument, Lindtner objects:
Worthington also recalled Sheftel’s comment in his book blaming two former OSI directors, Allan Ryan and Neal Sher, for ‘the worst cover-up in concealing evidence in a major case taken by an American public prosecutor in modern history….. Sher was disbarred in 2002.’
Buergenthal’s high reputation and his straightforward, unexaggerated reporting of events make this book worth reading. It provides an unusual insight into daily life at Birkenau, and gives a picture that is at odds which much of the traditionalist account. Thus, in the end, Buergenthal seems a better ‘witness’ for revisionism than traditionalism. Let us hope that this does not get him in trouble with his fellow seekers of justice.
The greater part of both works under review is spent rediscussing old material and arguments. While in some cases the rehashing of these familiar topics has refined the arguments, these aspects are likely to be incomprehensible to readers who have not carefully studied earlier writings on these subjects. There are, however, some elements which stand out in their novelty. The most prominent of the points on which the bloggers present us with something new is their attempt to change the killing method at Belzec and Treblinka from the traditional diesel exhaust to gasoline-engine exhaust. Given that anti-revisionists have spent nearly three decades insisting that, contra revisionist claims, diesel exhaust is a perfectly practical killing method, this marks an important backing-down. Their case for gasoline engines at these camps is not particularly compelling nor honest in its treatment of the witnesses, but the bloggers at least show the possibility of attempting such a line of argument. It will be interesting to see whether more prominent orthodox Holocaust scholars follow suit.
In addition to reporting that the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek were structurally unsuitable for gassing, Leuchter researched the chemical properties of the Zyklon B fumigant. Leuchter found that Zyklon B is a highly toxic compound that releases deadly hydrogen-cyanide gas. The released hydrogen-cyanide gas clings to surfaces and reacts chemically with materials containing iron, forming ferrocyanide compounds that have a distinctive blue color called Prussian Blue. Since building materials normally contain a certain amount of rust (iron oxide, usually between one and four percent), repeated exposure to hydrogen-cyanide gas would result in Prussian Blue staining on the walls of the alleged gas chambers.[4]
“I contracted typhus at Birkenau. The Germans came every day to take for the oven. I wasn’t the only one at the hospital. There were others...” (p. 55)
Then the first definitive claim—in January of 1945, four months before the end of the war: “6,000,000 Jews Dead,” blares the headline (Jan 8; p. 17). Jacob Lestchinsky claimed that the prewar population of 9.5 million had been reduced to 3.5 million. No mention of how he came to this figure, amidst the chaos of an ongoing war. In April, the NYT headlined a story: “5,000,000 Reported Slain at Oswiecim [Auschwitz]”—an incredible miscalculation, even assuming the correctness of the present-day figure of 1 million. In May we read something of an official declaration from Lord Wright of the UN War Crimes commission: “It has, however, been calculated that in all about six million Jews were deliberately slaughtered in [gas chambers] and other ways” (May 13; p. SM4). Calculated by whom? On what basis? And using what hard evidence? He does not say.
Since the Allies claimed that Nazi Germany had a program of genocide against European Jewry, numerous documents contradicting the genocide myth were hidden or destroyed by the Allies. However, enough documents exist to disprove Longerich’s assertion that all Jews sent to the Aktion Reinhardt camps were exterminated.
The Farm Hall transcripts offer strong evidence that Heisenberg never explained fast fission to Gerlach, that he cooked up a plausible method of estimating critical mass which gave an answer in tons, and that he well knew how to make a bomb with far less, but kept the knowledge to himself. Small wonder that with such an adviser the German authorities concluded that a bomb was beyond them.[33]
On sait que le Yad Vashem a entrepris de répertorier les noms des prétendus 6 millions de Juifs morts dans la Shoah. L’entreprise ne peut qu’apparaitre téméraire aux yeux des plus bienveillants, même aux yeux des historiens, étant donné que ces derniers dénombrent déjà un million de victimes de moins.[7] En fait, à ce jour, le Yad Vashem n’est arrivé qu’à 3 millions mais en multipliant les doublons. On peut ainsi estimer qu’il a multiplié par 2 à 3 le nombre de victimes répertoriées. Dans une ultime tentative de débloquer la situation, il vient de lancer une grande collecte de témoignages sur les Juifs de l’ancienne URSS.[8] Son raisonnement est simple (et mensonger à la fois) : Il affirme que plus des 2 tiers des 6 millions de morts y résidaient (soit plus de 4 millions) mais seulement un quart d’entre eux figurent dans la banque (soit 1000000) ; il en résulte que plus de 3 millions d’entre eux sont encore à répertorier, ce qui permettrait d’atteindre (enfin) le chiffre (mythique) des 6 millions.
“that the Superintendent of the Bethel Institute for Incurables had been sent to Dachau for refusing to permit the inmates to be put in lethal chambers. Within two weeks it was reported that this rumour was circulating in Switzerland and, on the 19th December, that the Vatican had issued a decree condemning the killing of physical or mental deﬁcients. The rumour has appeared in intercepted letters, and last Sunday the Sunday Express carried the story that 100,000 mental deﬁcients had been executed.”
According to the standard accounts of the camp, Sachsenhausen possessed a small homicidal gas chamber from 1943 to 1945, in which several thousand people were killed. This chamber, however, has received only a marginal treatment in the literature. One of the reasons for this marginality is that the technical operation of this chamber clashes with the standard overall portrayal of National Socialist gassing technologies. The gassings did not take place with Zyklon B, as in the alleged homicidal gassings at Auschwitz and Majdanek, nor with engine exhaust, as is claimed took place at Chelmno, Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka, nor with pure carbon monoxide, as is stated for some euthanasia institutions and Majdanek. Rather, they took place with an elaborate gassing apparatus that used a gas in liquid form. This apparatus was given a detailed description, including diagrams, in a report authored by a Soviet team which was active in the camp from 10th to 22nd June, 1945. This report, together with the confirmatory statements which the Soviet investigators extracted from former Sachsenhausen workers in the context of the Berlin-Pankow Sachsenhausen trial, forms the foundation of the accepted account of the functioning of the Sachsenhausen homicidal gas chamber. The description of the gas chamber’s functioning contained in the Soviet technical report is not derived from any earlier source, nor is it confirmed by sources originating outside of Soviet aegis, which rarely offer any description of the gas chamber’s nature and, when they do, disagree with the Soviet technical report.
With regard to the “Final Solution of the Jewish Question,” Irving accepted the official version as a matter of course; he never wrote a book or even an article about the subject.
These are serious charges leveled against Western Christianity. In order to evaluate the accusation—“Western Christendom is to a large extent responsible for the Holocaust.”—it must first be determined if the mass murder of six million Jews actually occurred.
“View of THE door to THE gas chamber in the Dachau concentrations camp. A sign above it identifies it as a shower.”[33]
It’s done in a way that is not only more-credible to those who concern themselves with the author’s true outlook on things, but further lends considerably greater impact to the analysis so conducted. As in the first edition, the arguments and “evidence” that support the regnant version of the story are presented, fully and fairly, or at least as much so as are the countervailing elements. Then, carefully compared at all salient points, the revisionists’ arguments are presented. But in this second edition, Dr. Dalton does not trouble himself to pretend that he may at any point have found the opposing arguments in any way comparable in his judgment. He grants up-front and beforehand that he in general has decided in favor of the revised version, and he carefully details exactly why in terms that should appeal to any devotee of the traditional perspective so long as said devotee has retained with his devotion, a comparable devotion to logic and the quality of evidence.
“Hanging in orderly rows were the clothes of prisoners who had been suffocated in a lethal gas chamber. They had been persuaded to remove their clothing under the pretext of taking a shower for which towels and soap were provided. This is the Brausebad, the shower bath. Inside the shower bath, the gas vents.”
What we see here is the fact that, since the camp’s liberation on April 29, 1945, quite a few people seem to have tampered with the evidence of this suspected crime scene. It’s difficult to assess what this hole was really used for. A peephole, however, would have been installed in the doors, as was and is common for air-raid shelter doors, rather than hacked through a thick brick wall, and it most certainly would not have slanted downward.
Such “witnesses” were not sworn to any truth, not on a Bible, nor on any tract pertaining to their actual or pretended beliefs. They were likewise immune, in effect, against any sort of charge of perjury. If a tribunal happened to discount their testimony, and mete out against the accused(s) some sentence a bit short of what might have been implied as appropriate by the testimony provided, that was the end of it. No witness in any of the post-war atrocity trials was ever even threatened with any such sanctions as those arising from perjury.
Because Butz’s Hoax is so seminal, and so widely known among friend and foe alike of revisionism, I shall cast most of the rest of this review in terms of comparing the works. If Butz’s Hoax were the deadly right hook of the revisionist boxing champion, Rudolf’s Dissecting would be its devastating left uppercut. Between them, they leave virtually no place to hide for anyone who would defend the legend of the Holocaust as propagated from Nuremberg, Tel Aviv, or Washington—except, of course, the familiar recourse of calumny and ad hominem attack to which we have all become accustomed.
“On further reﬂection we are not convinced that evidence regarding use of gas chambers is substantial enough to justify inclusion in a public declaration …and would prefer if United States Government agree, that sentence in question should end at ‘concentration camps’. “Please telegraph United States Government’s views urgently.”
Far from creating new legally enforced taboos about history, national identity and religion, we should be dismantling those that still remain on our statute books. Those European countries that have them should repeal not only their blasphemy laws but also their laws on Holocaust denial. Otherwise the charge of double standards is impossible to refute. What’s sauce for the goose must be sauce for the gander.[28]
For the Holocaust historians, this letter proves that Leichenkeller 1 of Krematorium II in Birkenau was used as a homicidal gas chamber. This thesis was severely criticized by Jean-Claude Pressac; in Auschwitz: Technique and Operation of the Gas Chambers he wrote:
In his 2009 book Worse Than War: Genocide, Eliminationism, and the Ongoing Assault on Humanity, Daniel Jonah Goldhagen writes:
DuBois wrote that the prosecution introduced evidence that I.G. Farben had stolen the chemical industries of Norway. I.G. Farben was also accused of dismantling equipment and installations in Poland and other countries and bringing them back to Farben’s plants in Germany.[26] DuBois failed to mention that the Allies engaged in massive confiscation of German plant and equipment after World War II. The Allied plunder of German property was far worse than anything I.G. Farben was alleged to have taken during the war.[27]
On 20 October 2013, Joseph Bellinger passed away. The current article was intended to be a chapter in a book that remained unpublished at the time of his death, The Prohibition of “Holocaust Denial.” We are currently in the process of editing various chapters from this work to prepare them for publication in future issues of Inconvenient History. — Ed.
Danuta Czech claimed to have documentarily proven the gassing of 2,897 Gypsy men and women based on the Arbeitseinsatz reports (labor deployment reports) from the male camp at Birkenau; for my part, I have limited myself to showing that her interpretation is documentarily unjustified. The discovery of the Stärkemeldung reports from the female sector of the camp only confirms my refutation.
“When I arrived at the camp, three gas chambers were already in operation; another ten were added while I was there. A gas chamber measured 5 × 5 meters and was about 1.90 meters high.”[10]
Searching for “the moment the Holocaust began” is quite as pointless as the never-ending search for “the missing link” in the evolution of homo sapiens.  Analyses of the event(s), however the events are constituted, often go back to ancient intergroup enmities and exploitations as far back as the Middle Ages. Others focus on misrepresented, but discrete, events such as the January 1942 Wannsee Conference.
What she does realize is that revisionist scholars approach the evidence differently than what she and her colleagues from the mainstream do (p. 27):
The editor confirmed that the book is basically a cut-and-paste assembly of various web texts from Berg's website. If any editing was done, it was very superficial. The cover design is cheap and ugly. The back cover, which should contain an interest-piquing summary of the book, simply is identical to the text on the book's first text page. The text of the first 13 pages is repeated at the very end of the book. This is only the most striking instance of repetitions, of which there are many throughout the book, some verbatim, some by basic contents. I've marked my hard copy with "repeated" notes in its wide margins whenever I ran into something I had read already earlier, and the book is full of them. The question, for instance, of whether and to what degree it is possible to commit mass murder with diesel exhaust – Berg's home turf – is addressed four times, thrice briefly (pp. 8-10, 32, 187-190) and once more-thoroughly (76-87). Repetitious also are several sweeping polemical statements, for example that Americans "should pray that there is no God" on the score of their holocaustian aerial warfare against civilians during World War II and later conflicts (pp. 16, 36, 51, similar pp. 47, 132), or that Hitler and the Nazis were right with the way they treated the Jews (pp. 50, 54, 56f.).
While it is well known to all with an interest in Holocaust historiography that the Germans operated six alleged “extermination camps” in Poland – Auschwitz-Birkenau, Majdanek, Chełmno (Kulmhof), Treblinka, Bełżec and Sobibór – and while some may be familiar with the claim that the camp Stutthof near Danzig (Gdansk) functioned as an “auxiliary extermination camp”[1], it is practically unknown to all but those with special interest in the Holocaust in Belarus that another alleged “extermination camp” was operated by the Commander of the Security Police and Security Service Minsk (Kommandeurs der Sicherheitspolizei und des SD (KdS) Minsk)[2] between 1941 and June 1944 at the former Soviet kolkhoz (collective farm) “Karl Marx” in the village of Maly Trostenets, some 12 km southeast of Minsk.
This distinction—between those moved, on the one hand, by the implications of tangible evidence and, on the other, by the interested confabulations of those who say they were there at that time—should be made by those who wish to know what might have been done to whom, by whom, when, where, how, and even, in the best of worlds, exactly why.
Exactly correct! When so-called “eyewitness Holocaust survivors” were cross-examined in the Zündel case, as detailed in this writer’s The Great Holocaust Trial, not one departed the witness stand with his credibility intact—and it is Hollywood’s Denial movie that reminds the world of this shocking and embarrassing fact, which shatters the main pillar upon which Auschwitz execution-gas-chamber mythology depends: the “undeniable” testimony of “eyewitnesses.” (The statement about the Zündel trial is made in a stream of verbiage from the Anthony Julius character. It is not said slowly or with emphasis. One has to be alert to catch it in the film).
In the end Longerich offers only a disconnected and incoherent account of the Einsatzgruppen. All the documentation on ghettos, forced labor, and Jewish reserves suggest minimal killing, as do reports that the vast majority of Jews fled the incoming Germans and thus were not there to be killed. Not to mention the fact (the author certainly didn't!) that there is far too little evidence of human remains or former mass graves to account for more than a fraction of the alleged 1-1.5 million fatalities.
“This estimate is based on approximations of 200,000 people from Distrikt Bialystok (to Auschwitz and Treblinka), 250,000 from Distrikt Galizien (to Auschwitz and Belzec), several thousand from Reichskommissariat Ostland (to Sobibor), at least 10,000 from Thrace (to Treblinka), 30,000 from Regierungsbezirk Ziechenau [sic] (to Auschwitz), and about 16,000 from Distrikt Krakau (to Auschwitz).”[37]
Widespread non-Jewish victimhood at the hands of the evil Nazis (sometimes combined with similar accusations against the Japanese and Italians) was alleged in order to make the war seem necessary to the people who had to endure it. In Hitchcock's film the point was explicitly stated by a British tommy at Buchenwald, who says twice that he knew why he was fighting because of what he had seen:
“No, I'm past that. When I attempted to turn those facilities into gas execution facilities and was unable to, I made a decision at that point that I wasn't wrong. And perhaps that's why I did it. At least it cleared my mind, so I know that I left no stone unturned. I did everything possible to substantiate and prove the existence of the gas chambers, and I was unable to.”
Black says that the “Holocaust” would have happened without IBM. He writes:
Another problem with Longerich’s statement is that a large number of disabled Jewish adults who were not fit for work survived their internment at Auschwitz-Birkenau. For example, Anne Frank’s father, Otto Frank, contracted typhus at Auschwitz and was sent to the camp hospital to recover. He remained at Auschwitz-Birkenau when the Germans abandoned the camp in January 1945, survived the war, and died in Switzerland in August 1980.[36] If Auschwitz-Birkenau had been a place of mass exterminations, why would the German authorities leave behind thousands of disabled Jews such as Otto Frank to testify to their genocide?
The guards at the entrance to the building would have had to count the people entering, stopping the queue once the quota for one of the rooms had been reached. Then the guards themselves would have had to enter the corridor, push any hesitating victims forcefully into the particular chamber being filled and close the door on the fighting and screaming crowd. Those outside had to witness all this until it was their turn. Once all the rooms had been filled, the diesel engine would be started up and the exhaust gas fed to the chambers. Even a proponent of the traditional view would have to admit that such a scenario may be difficult to put into practice.
No one ever conducted a detailed forensic investigation to confirm the witness statements and allegations at Babi Yar. Why was no detailed forensic investigation ever conducted at Babi Yar? The only reasonable answer is that the mass shootings of Jews at Babi Yar never took place. Since there is no material evidence for the mass shootings and cremation of the bodies at Babi Yar, and since the photograph of September 26, 1943 disproves these allegations, Davidov’s eyewitness testimony is clearly inaccurate.[xvii]
These design considerations direct our attention to a question which has not been treated in much detail in the many works on the subject, be they affirmative or revisionist: How does one move hundreds or even more than a thousand naked people calmly and efficiently from the undressing room to the gassing chamber? This is not as easy as it sounds, because one has to take into account the layout of those underground chambers and, anyway, crowd control is never a simple matter, especially if the crowd is mortally fearful.
In perhaps the first revisionist article on the alleged Sachsenhausen gas chamber, Carlo Mattogno observed[1] that the system described in the Soviet technical report is unquestionably based on the DEGESCH Kreislauf system for Zyklon B gas chambers, without any indication of specialized killing technology. The Kreislauf system is not alleged to have been turned to homicidal use at other locations, but is supposed to have been used only for its intended (non-homicidal) purposes. The Soviet report, therefore, depicts a technical system that matches the apparatus accepted to have been used throughout the rest of Europe only for sanitary gassings, and does not match any of the systems said to have been used for homicidal purposes. This raises the strong suspicion that the details of the gassing system described in the Soviet technical report on Sachsenhausen were filled in from an actual delousing-gas-chamber system rather than from any homicidal gas chamber.
“One’s suspicions are confirmed when one reads that signatories pledge themselves to challenge any person of importance who “denies, denigrates or trivialises the Holocaust.” Assuming that “denies” includes “revises”, as is usual in discussions in public forums today, this signifies an overt trampling on the principle of free speech. What has happened to our Parliament?”
No one has ever been punished for the deaths and mistreatment of German inmates in the postwar Soviet-run camps. The hundreds of thousands of visitors who visit the Buchenwald campsite each year only see museums and memorials dedicated to the “victims of fascism.” There is nothing at Buchenwald to remind visitors of the thousands of Germans who perished miserably in Buchenwald after the war when the camp was run by the Soviet Union.[10]
Close to 70 years after the end of World War II the history of Maly Trostenets and the mass killings allegedly perpetrated there still remains very much shrouded in obscurity. Even though the available evidence does not permit us to exclude the possibility of German-conducted mass executions in and around the camp, there are many reasons to be skeptical of the orthodox portrayal of Trostenets as a "death camp". The bulk of the orthodox historiography on the camp is derived from post-war testimony, whereas the only documentary evidence for the mass killings consists of the questionable Gruppe Arlt activity reports, furnished by Communist Czechoslovakia in the early 1960s, and the only material "evidence" of that adduced in the 1944 survey of an Extraordinary State Commission headed by Nicholai Burdenko, the man behind the fraudulent Soviet Katyn commission.
Sientje and Jetje Veterman were sent to Sobibor on April 6, 1943. They were sorted out together with 28 other women for work, transferred to Trawniki, and later returned to the Netherlands by way of Auschwitz-Birkenau. Elias Alex Cohen was deported to Sobibor on March 17, 1943. Cohen spent only a few hours in Sobibor and was sent on to Majdanek with 35 other Jews. She eventually returned home to Holland via Auschwitz-Birkenau. Sophie Verduin was deported to Sobibor on March 10, 1943, and transferred to Majdanek a few hours later. Her return home to Holland took place by way of Auschwitz-Birkenau.[12]
Evans then reviews the revisionist movement, employing the usual array of deceptive tactics. First, he liberally sprinkles his text with ad hominem attacks and other slanders, beginning with the generous use of the term ‘denier.’ These deniers, he says, “inhabit an intellectual world that [is] far removed from the cautious rationality of academic historical scholarship. What moved them seemed to be a strange mixture of political prejudice and bitter personal experience” (p.114)—though one wonders how Evans knows such things. They offer “a perverse kind of entertainment,” something that belongs “to what some have called a paranoid style of historical writing” (p. 117). Deniers live in a kind of fantasyland; they claim “that virtually nothing of what [the survivors] had suffered had ever happened” (pp. 117-118). More hyperbole from Evans; no serious revisionist has claimed that “nothing ever happened” to the Jews, or that they did not suffer greatly. But he goes on. “A good deal of [revisionist writing] seemed to be linked to racial hatred and antisemitic animosity in the most direct possible way.” Another false statement, and tellingly, he offers neither citations nor any evidence to support this charge. In sum, says Evans, we must beware of the “weird and irrational world of Holocaust denial” (p. 119).
Q. What was the gas chamber in Sachsenhausen being used for?
Another important issue regarding the Holocaust is the awareness of the German public about it, either civilians or soldiers. What did the Germans know? Two researchers, historian Eric A. Johnson and sociologist Karl-Heinz Reuband, started searching for answers in 1993. After nearly 3,000 written surveys and 200 interviews the result was the book What We Knew: Terror, Mass Murder, and Everyday Life in Nazi Germany (Basic Books, 2006). It’s time to have a look at their findings, so brace yourselves dear readers as this will be one hell of a long ride! Contents follow:
Ultimately, as with so many things about that so-called Holocaust with all its testimonies and sworn affidavits, we’ll never know. Rudolf Höss was hanged at Auschwitz on April 16, 1947. We wouldn’t have known even if he hadn’t been hanged.  The Truth is ever-elusive.
Pressac’s book, printed on 564 oversize pages, includes hundreds of good-quality reproductions of original German architectural plans and diagrams, photographs taken both during and after the war, and many documents with translations. Remarkably, in the entire book, Pressac fails to mention anything about the techniques and operation of the German homicidal gas chambers. The title of his book is totally false. Revisionists say that since no homicidal gas chambers ever existed in the German concentration camps, Pressac did not write about the techniques and operation of the gas chambers because there was nothing to write about.[14]
The alleged cruel experiments Mengele is said to have performed with twins deported to Auschwitz were so lethal that most of the twins he had enrolled in his research not only survived the war, but were even able to form an association in 1984, toward the peak of the Mengele hysteria, which was meant to lobby for their and their descendants’ interests: Children of Auschwitz Nazi Deadly Lab Experiment Survivors (CANDLES). Read and rethink the association’s name: How can deadly lab experiments have any survivors?
The people who think that revising the history of the Holocaust will somehow topple Israel are idiots. Israel’s existence is not based on whether or not there were gas chambers at Auschwitz in 1944. If, tomorrow, Yad Vashem declared that Auschwitz had no killing program, it would not make one damn bit of difference. Israel would be fine, because Israel’s Muslim foes don’t give a good fuck about historical subtleties. No one in the Muslim world is studying forensic reports, thinking “if I can’t find traces of cyanide residue in the Auschwitz kremas, I’ll hate Israel and try to destroy her. But if I can find the traces, by gosh, I’ll love and support her.
So one afternoon I was in the mall here drinking a diet Pepsi and reading Professor Rosen's discussion of madness in English and Continental poets from about 1750 to 1850. It looked as if half my favorite poets from the period were goofy. At the same time, Rosen noted that madness is oftentimes a matter of social convention and that social pressure oftentimes determines whether or not you will be certified as a lunatic. It is not clear, he writes, that those men with their visions were any more insane than the people today "who believe that no one was gassed at Auschwitz."
What did you know about Auschwitz at that time?
Yet, even here, the testimony of Bahir is substantially different from the story presented by Holocaust expert Arad. Toward the end of July 1942, the Germans supposedly installed giant cranes to transport the bodies from the “gas chambers” to a crematorium. In Bahir’s own words: “After a few days, two giant cranes were brought to camp and set up near the gas chambers. These cranes worked unceasingly, three shifts a day, taking the bodies out of the chambers and transferring them to the new crematoria which had been built nearby.”[55]
The Christian theologian, Robert McAfee Brown, reluctantly agreed (somewhat) with Finkelstein: “This is the crisis of belief that the Holocaust forces on us. For who, whether Jew or Christian, can believe in a God in whose world such things take place? The perennial mystery of evil, the source of our greatest vulnerability as believers, reaches unique expression in the Holocaust. No theodicy can encompass this event so that its wounds are closed or its scars healed. It forever precludes easy faith in God or humanity. Both are placed under judgment, and a verdict or acquittal may not be lightly rendered, if at all, to either party.”[8]
In this situation, it is claimed that at that very time the mass murder of thousands of deportees in gas chambers started, that in fact a new gassing facility (Bunker 2) went into operation. In view of the fact that the camp authorities had lost control of the epidemic and could not even handle the corpses resulting from the disease, how likely is it that they could have even thought of making this already uncontrollable situation even worse by adding thousands of additional corpses every month which they wouldn’t have been able to process in any way either?
Although surrounded by absolute secrecy, Operation 1005 was doubtless the best known German operation in the immediate neighborhood of the cremation sites during the genocide of the Jews (p. 154).
[36] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 158.
What is objectionable to certain interests about those who expose Allied war crimes is that this is “relativizing” the Holocaust, an offense that has been considered previously in Inconvenient History.[17] If German criminality in World War II was no more or less iniquitous than the wartime criminality of any other state, then the uniqueness of the Jewish experience is undermined. Hence also the moral underpinning of not only the Israeli State, but of the special taboo against criticizing any reprehensible character who happens to be Jewish. While Lipstadt et al claim that historical revisionism is devoid of any scholarly merit, they are stuck with the existence of genuinely eminent scholars such as Charles C. Tansill, professor of American diplomatic history at Georgetown University, who saw World War II as an inevitable consequence of the Versailles Treaty in his 1952 book Back Door to War,[18] and Harry Elmer Barnes. Inconvenient historians such as Tansill and Barnes therefore do not have their scholarship scrutinized, but rather are portrayed as merely part of an anti-Semitic current that had its precursor with the Henry Ford-sponsored 1920s series “The International Jew.” published in the Ford Company’s newspaper The Dearborn Independent,[19] and continued today by Klansmen and neo-Nazis. Hence, Tansill and Barnes become part of an anti-Semitic world conspiracy that includes tobacco-chewing Klansmen and Muslim suicide bombers. In this vein James J. Martin, another American scholar, is cited as having described the Morgenthau Plan as running Germany “according to the Old Testament instead of the New.”[20]
With a rather sensational book cover Pogozhev gives us a sensational account of his experiences but with surprisingly few details on the crimes committed. Whereas in other parts of the book there are tedious details about all sorts of things (even entire long verbatim dialogues between prisoners), the extermination part is much briefer despite his claimed close contact with the Sonderkommandos. Pogozhev is unaware of the term Bunker, their number, their internal arrangement, the gassing method, or the location or number of pits, not to mention the claim of a non-existent crematorium.
The deportation of the Gypsies to Birkenau was effected in consquence of a Himmler order dated 16 December 1942. This is the so-called “Auschwitz-Erlaß” (Auschwitz Decree), preceded, on 13 October 1942, by another decree from the Reichssicherheitshauptamt (RSHA) on the subject of the “Zigeunerhäuptlinge” (Gypsy tribal heads), which “distinguished between Sinti and Lalleri “of pure race” and “good crossbreeds in a Gypsy sense” on the one hand, and the “remaining Gypsy crossbreeds and Roma on the other hand”, as noted by Michael Zimmermann.[9] The first group was to be treated favorably:
So, the narration of the Nuremburg trial evidence film “Nazi Concentration Camps” was completely wrong. This clothing did not belong to inmates suffocated in the gas chamber. This was just clothing which passed through the real gas chambers for delousing clothes and was airing out.
“THE door to THE gas chamber in Dachau. It is marked ‘showerbath.’”[32]
Finally, on July 16, 1953, a Mr. Michel Wächter announces in the Swedish newspaper DAGENS NYHETER the contents of such a document. In the article, which is titled “Testimony about the Gas Chambers”, the following can be read among other things:
The first convoys of Greek Jews departing for Auschwitz in spring 1943 followed the route Salonika–Belgrade–Zagreb–Vienna–Auschwitz. Another Salonika transport departing in late March 1943 travelled the route Salonika–Vrbca–Cracow–Małkinia–Treblinka. The transports from Bulgarian-occupied Thrace to Treblinka went the route Salonika–Bulgaria–Vienna–Cracow.[75] According to the official version of events none of these Jews ever reached Lvov (Lemberg) in Eastern Galicia (then part of the Generalgouvernement, now in Ukraine).
However, the evidence indicates that almost all of the 560 guards at Dachau were murdered when the Americans took control of the camp.
The Holocaust orthodoxy continues to suppress evidence to this day. Publicly disputing the official Holocaust narrative is a crime in some 19 countries. Moreover, in Germany it is prohibited by threat of punishment to file a motion with the court to admit evidence seeking to prove that revisionist statements are correct. The reason given is that such motions constitute “Holocaust denial” and would therefore be a criminal act during a public trial. Accordingly, several defense lawyers have been sentenced simply because they filed such a motion.[25]
Early in the movie the viewer is taken on an actual tour of Auschwitz-Birkenau in Poland, where Lipstadt and her defense team stumble around among the sacred relics. She admonishes her barrister Richard Rampton (Tom Wilkinson) over his insufficient awe and reverence (he makes tearful amends later). The familiar propaganda about the camp is retailed, until the movie gets to a nearly intact old building. Before entering, it is unambiguously stated that to defeat the deniers’ position on Auschwitz homicidal gassings, one must defeat the Leuchter Report. By now I was wondering if my hearing was faulty, so welcome was this acknowledgement of that momentous study, which is usually demonized by media hacks and academics as a worthless trifle.
14. Ruth Maier [a schoolgirl deported to Auschwitz].
Background: On 20 May 2013 our national newspaper The Australian carried a news report headed ‘Labor MPs to back PM on anti-Semitism’. It included the following information ‘NSW Labor MPs will use this week’s parliamentary sittings for a mass signing of the London Declaration on Combating Anti-Semitism. The Prime Minister became the first Australian leader to put her name to the document last month. Last week, Federal Coalition parliamentarians made history when all 71 House of Representatives and 34 Senate members of the Coalition party room signed the Declaration….. Parliamentarians who sign the Declaration pledge to “expose, challenge and isolate political actors who engage in hate against Jews and target the state of Israel as a Jewish collectivity” and “challenge any foreign leader, politician or public figure who denies, denigrates or trivialises the Holocaust.”’
In the end the Court ruled against Irving. The media would forever sully his name with “Holocaust denier” when reporting news about him. The label, now made “official,” would deny him access to major publishing houses. Who in the wake of the St. Martin’s debacle and the Lipstadt trial would work with a man such as this?
Surprisingly, in a book about the Holocaust, the death camps rarely appear. There is a very brief description about the killing operations in Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka (p. 92), and a few other references like this:
“A gas chamber after the liberation.”[39]
At the time, no one else had the means to challenge the clampdown on intellectual freedom. No one else had even the remotest chance to counter the growing forces of censorship. As the trial proceeded it appeared as a boxing match, not over the Holocaust itself, but over whether dissenting viewpoints on this one tragic time in history could be spoken or even considered. In one corner we had Deborah Lipstadt and all the power of the mainstream seeking to deny discussion of historical events that had been elevated to mythical and nearly religious proportions. In the other corner was a lone historian, a champion for freedom fighting for the permission for whole generations present and future to discuss the Holocaust in the years ahead.
In short, Black blames IBM for providing the machinery which enabled National-Socialist Germany to implement the “Holocaust.” He writes (p. 365):
[1] I am indebted to Dr. Butz for describing the case of the Donation of Constantine and the roles of Lorenzo Valla and others at some length in his magnum opus. I had previously been aware of none of it, but I could say the same for his landmark revelations concerning the Holocaust, quite as well.
Dr. Richard Green, who has a Ph.D. in chemistry from Stanford University, agrees with Germar Rudolf that the Prussian Blue found in the delousing chambers is the result of gassings with hydrogen cyanide. However, Dr. Green offers a possible alternative explanation for why the outside walls of the delousing chambers have blue staining. Green writes:[15]
While sidestepping the issue of Lüftl’s evidence and conclusions, critics grunted their disapproval and declared that the legal ruling would henceforth provide ‘Holocaust deniers’ with a convenient loophole to camouflage their “propaganda” in the guise of scholarly reports.
In an attempt to shore up the official figure of Auschwitz victims, Breitman claims that the number of actual victims were subject to particularly severe measures of official censorship and confidentiality when reported by radio:[18]
On Saturday, 28 January, the President's representative Hope Hicks told CNN that Jews were not specifically mentioned because Jews were not the only victims of the Holocaust. She supported that position by citing a 2015 article from the Huffington Post (no friends of Trump) that referred to “5 million non-Jewish” victims.
Revisionists accept that a euthanasia program began in Germany at the start of the war (using lethal injections) but was abandoned in August 1941on Adolf Hitler’s orders due to the scale of religious opposition, especially from the Catholic Bishop von Galen of Münster. The alleged use of gas chambers in this euthanasia program has been seen by revisionists as an attempt to bolster Holocaust myths.[44] British propagandists’ invention of a “lethal chamber” aspect to euthanasia could in this context be seen as the basis for later accretions of myth.
“It’s not only the Germans that hated Jews. Almost the whole world hated Jews. The concentration camps – Auschwitz, Dachau, Buchenwald – Britain knew about it, France knew about it, the Americans knew about it. They could have done something about it. They could have bombed the camps because they were burning the bodies anyway. But they didn’t do it. You know why? Because they said, ’Leave Hitler alone because he’s doing a good job for us killing all the Jews. He gets the blame and we get what we want.’ That’s it in a nutshell, and nobody’s going to tell me any different.” (p. 18)
David Kemp, a former Coalition cabinet minister under John Howard [PM from 1996 to 2007] and current president of the Liberal Party in Victoria, expressed deep concern at the Government’s back-down, which he wrote had “shocked many Liberals” and was having “repercussions through the Liberal Party”. He argued that hitherto the Party had seen itself as having “a historic role, a special responsibility, to defend… fundamental freedoms of speech, press, religion and association”, this self-interpretation being based on the ideals espoused by the Party’s founder, Sir Robert Menzies, seventy years ago. “Menzies was very aware of the tendency of politics to degenerate into the appeasement of powerful vested interests. The only way for a government to rise above the struggle of vested interests for privilege, he argued, is to persuade people of the principles on which the public interest is based.” Kemp defended free speech and insisted that there was wide support in Australia for amending Section 18C. “To describe reforms to restore freedom of speech as a ‘needless complication’ in the effort to appease certain interests is to seriously misunderstand, and to affront, many Liberals, and I suspect a good number in the communities concerned. To suggest that national unity requires a legal prohibition on offending certain select groups is unbelievable and demeaning to all.” He warned that the Act “subjects our culture to the discretion of tribunals that easily end up sounding like star chambers.”[103]
Longerich is correct that Hitler authorized in writing the German euthanasia program.[11] However, Longerich provides no credible evidence why Hitler decided not to issue a written order to exterminate European Jewry. Longerich absurdly assumes that Hitler learned his lesson from his written authorization of the euthanasia program, as if Hitler thought he would be found innocent if he never made a written order to exterminate Europe’s Jews.
[24] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 174.
Alfred Rosenberg's private diaries provide no evidence that there was a program for mass extermination. Photo taken June 1942.
It is important to emphasize that, in the vast documentation on Auschwitz, the term “gassing” (Vergasung) in each and every single case solely and exclusively refers to pest control, yet never to any murderous activities.
William Denson had no doubt that the U.S. Army tribunal would find the German defendants guilty of war crimes.[20] The 90 minutes it took to convict the 40 defendants was also probably not a surprise to Denson. In fact, in the later Mauthausen trial in which Denson was the lead prosecutor, the American military tribunal took only 90 minutes to find all 61 defendants guilty.[21]
Rosika Schwimmer, who was on the Peace Ship with Ford, quoted Ford as saying even before the Peace Ship sailed: “I know who caused the war—the German-Jewish bankers! I have the evidence here”—he patted his breast pocket— “Facts! The German-Jewish bankers caused the war. I can’t give out the facts now, because I haven’t got them all yet, but I’ll have them soon.”[29] Thus, Ford probably had some knowledge of an international Jewish conspiracy even before talking to these two prominent Jews.
This is how the Holocaust historians write "history."
The DEGESCH had two major distributors, the Heerdt und Lingler GmbH of Frankfurt (“Heli”) and the Tesch und Stabenow. Internationale Gesellschaft für Schädlingsbekämpfung (“Testa”) of Hamburg, who had divided the market: Heli was operating in the territories west of the Elbe River, while Testa supplied customers in the territories to the east of the Elbe, including the Sudetengau, the General Government (occupied Poland), the Reichskommissariat Ostland (occupied territories of the USSR), as well as Denmark, Finland and Norway. Due to the Auschwitz Camp’s location, it fell within the commercial jurisdiction of Testa. Hence, all Zyklon B deliveries which the camp administration of Auschwitz had picked up directly from Dessau fell in the accounts of the Testa Company. Even the document quoted by Setkiewicz speaks explicitly of “DEGESCH delivery of Zyklon to concentration camps by the Testa Company.” However, at least for one camp the data contained in it are incomplete, because it is established that Testa supplied the Lublin-Majdanek Camp with 2,211 kg of Zyklon B in 1942, and with 4,500 kg in 1943 (Graf/Mattogno 2012, pp. 200-203.), while the list in Document NI-11937 contains no deliveries at all for 1942, and only 1,627.5 kg for 1943.
Bernard Baruch, who was Roosevelt’s chief advisor, scoffed at a statement made on March 10, 1939 by Neville Chamberlain that “the outlook in international affairs is tranquil.” Baruch agreed passionately with Winston Churchill, who had told him: “War is coming very soon. We will be in it and you [the United States] will be in it.”[21]
Later that month a note from the War Ofﬁce Deputy Director of Operations, Col. John Sinclair (who became Chief of MI6 from 1953 to 1956) to David Bowes-Lyon approved the UP Committee’s new development of the gas-chamber story:[39]
Confederate memorials and Holocaust memorials share many things in common, one of the most-notable of which is that they are built on “donated” public land. The memorials themselves, with the notable exception of the US Holocaust Museum and Memorial in Washington, DC, were built with private funds raised by organizations such as the Daughters of the Confederacy. A question that arises frequently with regard to the older cohort (the Confederate) of memorials is: why didn’t “offended” groups, such as Blacks, object to the emplacement of the memorials and, once the memorials were in place, why did several generations pass before “they” (or sympathetic groups of others) raised objections to them?
It has been widely known ever since the illegal abduction of Adolf Eichmann in Argentina that the Israeli Mossad has immense capabilities. Given the fact that Chief Public Prosecutor Fritz Bauer was a Zionist Jew, which should have precluded him from heading the pretrial investigation, it is quite possible that the forces of international Jewry were able to murder Baer in his jail. Conveniently, the Auschwitz Trial in Frankfurt, Germany began almost immediately after Baer’s death. With Baer’s death the prosecutors at the trial were able to obtain their primary objective—to reinforce the gas-chamber myth and establish it as an unassailable historical fact.[26]
After I had been sentenced to another 30 months due to my opus magnum “Lectures on the Holocaust,” I tried to publish my defense speech in German from within. Since censorship had been handed over by the judge to the prison staff after my verdict had become effective, I now had some keen readers of my correspondence among the prison staff itself. Since that publishing project involved sending lots of paper in and out and also was in German, it had to raise red flags. So one of those days I had the police visit me in prison (quite a parade of officers entering my tiny cell; what a spectacle!) in search of a dangerous stack of paper: my defense speech (what a threat to the state!), in which I had committed the crime of using adjectives of doubt in connection with historical claims (how dare I!). Plus I had quoted the indictment (yikes!), which consisted mostly of quotes from my book. Since my book was illegal, quoting it, even though contained in the indictment, was deemed illegal too…[3] Fortunately my lawyer managed to get the case quashed.
I have heard of the allegations of former prisoners in Auschwitz referring to a gas chamber there, the mass executions and whippings, the cruelty of the guards employed and that all this took place either in my presence or with my knowledge. All I can say to all this is that it is untrue from beginning to end.
What did the Special Commission at Sachsenhausen find out about the shooting of Soviet POWs? The so-called ”Häftlingsbericht” (Prisoners’ Report) produced in May and June 1945 under the authorship of Communist ex-prisoner Hellmut Bock put the number of victims at 16,000. Probably this figure was already mentioned in the missing first version of the ”Häftlingsbericht” (HB-1) which existed as early as 7 May 1945; an English translation of this document has survived (HB-2). In version HB-7, which was handed over to the Soviet Commission on 12 June 1945, the killing of the Russians is described in the following way:[38]
“The extensive research carried out in recent years on this important documentation has contributed to the sum of knowledge on the subject of the gas chambers and crematoria at Auschwitz, but it has not helped to resolve all contentious issues,”
Here is my most important point. If a true believer in the orthodox Sobibor extermination story simply consults academically acceptable sources, even he will find enough evidence to be very skeptical of the Sobibor “gas chamber” claim. The contradictions and falsehoods that I’ve enumerated here are exactly what one should expect from a historical myth.
Israeli Judge Yitzhak Raveh questioned Eichmann about what was discussed at the Conference: “What […] was talked about there?” Eichmann answered: “The various possibilities for killing (p. 132).” So, it would be logical to presume that mass murder in “gas chambers” would be a “possibility for killing” that was discussed. Nevertheless, Eichmann gave a different and seemingly conflicting response to another judge.
Here is how that hole looks on the inside, seen from the gas chamber. It does indeed angle upward. In the background you see bricks and mortar used by the museum to close up that gaping hole in the adjoining room. Inside this tube runs an electric cable put in there when the room was prepared as a museum exhibit.
Critically, Sanning shows that many of these Jewish losses were caused not by any program of German genocide, but by Soviet depredations. Sanning states that hundreds of thousands of Jews lost their lives in Soviet deportations to the east or in Siberian labor and concentration camps. Sanning concludes that the food supply, shelter, and clothing provided to the Jewish inmates in the Soviet camps was woefully inadequate, and that medical attention was almost completely lacking.[33] Sanning’s conclusion is supported by Jewish historian Gerald Reitlinger, who said: “In Southern Siberia the death-rate was very high for…Jews….”[34]
L’opération entreprise par le Yad Vashem se solde donc par une banqueroute dont on peut néanmoins tirer un premier enseignement: le chiffre de six millions de Juifs exterminés est un mythe dont n’importe qui peut facilement se convaincre. Mais un examen plus fouillé de cette banque des données est encore plus enrichissant. Ainsi, dans l’article sur la liquidation du ghetto de Lodz à propos duquel nous nous sommes référés plus haut, le chercheur révisionniste Carlo Mattogno donne les noms d’enfants arrivés en août 1944 à Auschwitz où ils furent gazés, selon l’histoire officielle, mais qui, en réalité, furent envoyés quelques jours plus tard dans le camp de Stutthof-Danzig à 600 km au nord d’Auschwitz; parmi eux, nous avons déjà vu, Michael et Josef Salomonowicz (11 et 6 ans) mais on y trouve aussi :
As for the initials “S.B.”, I have already noted the peculiarity of the use of these initials; see above. I would like to add that the words “Gest.[orben] S.B.” is also rather strange: if “S.B.” was synonymous with homicidal gassing, what was the purpose of specifying that the respective inmates were “gestorben” [had died]? This rather accords with the explanation of someone interested in establishing a correlation between “S.B.” and death, that is, of creating “proof” of this alleged equivalence. The “Hauptbuch des Zigeunerlager” was produced at Birkenau on 13 January 1949,[43] during the Stalin era. Could it be that some overzealous employee of the Auschwitz Museum wished to add a datum (the initials “S.B.”) which would – from his point of view – have “completed” the register? If we examine page 542 of the women’s register carefully[44] - the only one containing the initials “S.B.” that has been published – it is obvious that these initials were written in darker, higher-contrast, ink than the annotations “Gest.”, followed by the date, and, in contrast to these annotations, there are no smears: the strokes of the nib are clear and sharp. Furthermore, the initials “S.B.” are written in a clearly different hand from that in which the annotations are written, as made obvious by the initials by the name of the Gypsy woman Sofia Brzesziński (no. 8377 of the register) on the same page. This more than justifies the suspicion that the initials “S.B.” were added later, after the rediscovery of the registers. Since the registers, consisting of three volumes (one containing the men’s register, and the other two containing the women’s registers), were somewhat dilapidated, a comprehensive manipulation was not possible, because, on other pages, the new ink right next to the faded ink would have been too obvious to fool anyone.
This is a total lie and inversion of history. The final shot of the “Nazi Concentration Camps” film shows footage of a prisoner at Nordhausen who had his head blown off.
Referring to the Catholic and the communist, Orwell noted that “each of them tacitly claims that “the truth” has already been revealed, and that the heretic, if he is not simply a fool, is secretly aware of “the truth” and merely resists it out of selfish motives.” Just so, at the present times, defenders of “Holocaust orthodoxy” insist that their position is “beyond debate” and resort to ad hominem arguments of various kinds, such as accusations that revisionists are anti-Semites or neo-Nazis.
On June 18, 1945, Czechoslovak troops shot 265 German civilians in the back of the neck and buried them in a mass grave the Germans had first been forced to dig beside a railway station. At Lanškroun, a two-day “People’s Tribunal” conducted by a prominent member of Beneš’s party resulted in 20 people who were shot; two hanged; others tortured; and others drowned in the town’s fire pool. In the city of Chomutov on the morning of June 9, up to a dozen Germans were tortured to death in a “cleansing operation” conducted by Staff Captain Karel Prášil on a sports field in full view of sickened Czech passersby.[30]
Politicians deride Holocaust revisionist papers and conferences as "beyond the pale of international discourse and acceptable behavior."[4] Non-Zionist Jews who participate in such revisionism, like Rabbi Dovid Weiss of the Neturei Karta, are denounced as "self-haters" and are shunned and spat upon. Even Professor Norman Finkelstein, whose parents were both Holocaust survivors and who wrote the book, The Holocaust Industry, has been branded a Holocaust denier.
As to the American ‘right-wing,’ I had no respect for it from my earlier experience, and I have even less today. I don't think anything constructive will ever appear from the political right-wing. It is not inconceivable that some day a group of well-intentioned military men may reach a point of frustration, and take this thing over. The military are basically conservative, and I think that they used to, at any rate, possess a realistic view of the forces that work internationally. Now that has been eroded, to some extent by, I’m sure, mis-education in the service academies, along the lines of Holocaust propaganda, anti-German propaganda, racial-tolerance nonsense and the like. But from the military generation that I knew, and these were there people who were in World War I – those senior officers pretty well knew where things were at. They knew that the Nigras were by and large worthless as soldiers unless you had three White men standing behind the back of each Black, to make sure that he conducted himself in a reasonably productive fashion. And they were aware of the Jews, later aware of the American subservience to Israel, etc. General George S. Brown was probably one of the last martyrs to American interests, when he very forcefully pointed out while Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that Israel was absolutely not only worthless as a military ally, but a great disadvantage to the United States, and he was quickly, of course, shut up and forced out, as was General Singlaub shut up and forced out by Jimmeh [sic] Carter in quite recent years.
Several points here: One, in all of Holocaust historiography, there is no actual or even rumored documentation of any such “bone dissolving machines.” There were alleged bone crushers, driven by diesel engines; here is one alleged photo. But these have been shown to be fraudulent.[1] The Nazis also allegedly used chlorinated lime (quicklime) to try to decompose corpses at Treblinka and Belzec, but this chemical, when used, only reduces the odor; it does nothing to hasten decomposition. “Dissolving,” especially for bones, implies the use of acid or some other strong chemical process, but again, such claims are completely unknown in the literature. Hence Goldman rightly refers to these as “hitherto unheard-of machines.” Perhaps there was some confusion on Goldstein’s part, and he actually meant ‘crushing,’ not ‘dissolving.’ But again, we have no reliable evidence that such crushing machines were ever used by the Germans.
The question, in more explicit terms, that should be asked: which are the sources that allow us to identify the names of Holocaust victims?
Höss was loaded onto a truck and taken to a prison in Heide. Along the way Alexander interrogated him. Höss admitted that he had been the commander of Auschwitz and claimed he was “personally responsible for the deaths of 10,000 people.”
Self-help gurus frequently cite the Holocaust story in their books and teachings. The heroic survival strategies of men such as Stanislavsky Lech and Viktor Frankl are used to inspire us to lead better lives. Other self-help gurus use the alleged genocide of European Jewry to demonstrate the violent depravity of which man is capable. They consistently claim that the “Holocaust” is one of the darkest chapters in world history.
In 1979 the U.S. government released wartime aerial photographs of the Auschwitz and Birkenau Camps taken on several random days in 1944 during the height of the alleged extermination period. These photographs are so remarkable in their clarity that vehicles and even people can be distinguished in them. Many of these photographs were taken at mid-morning on typical workdays. None of these photos show huge pits nor piles of bodies, smoking crematory chimneys, masses of Jews awaiting death outside of the alleged gas chambers, nor the mountains of coke that would have been needed to fuel the crematoria. All of these would have been visible if Auschwitz and Birkenau had been the extermination centers they are said to have been.
The court finds that the circumstances, conditions, and the very nature of Mauthausen and its by-camps were of such a criminal nature as to cause every official, governmental, military, and civil, and every employee thereof to be culpably and criminally responsible. The court further finds that it was impossible for a guard or a civilian employee to have been employed in aforesaid concentration camp without having acquired a definite knowledge of the criminal practices and activities therein. The court therefore declares that any official, governmental, military, or civil, whether he be a member of the Waffen SS, Allgemeine SS, or any guard or civil employee of Mauthausen or any of its by-camps, is guilty of a crime against the recognized laws, customs, and practices of civilized nations and the letter and spirit of the laws and usages of war, and by reason thereof is to be punished. As I read the following names, I want the accused to rise.[25]
The sexual humiliation of female prisoners in the Polish camp at Potulice had become an institutional practice by the end of 1945. Many of the women were sexually abused and beaten, and some of the punishments resulted in horrific injuries. The sexual exploitation of women in Polish-run camps contrasts to the experience of women in German-run concentration camps. Rape or other forms of sexual mistreatment was an extremely rare occurrence at German concentration camps, and severely punished by the authorities if detected.[16]
This procedure could easily have been incorporated into the homicidal gas chambers of Crematoria II and III equipped, as they were, with ventilation facilities. It would merely have been necessary to connect the respective part of a Kreislauf chamber to the air intake of the ventilation system. Instead, we are told that for their homicidal objective the camp authorities opted for a very primitive and potentially hazardous solution that was not even simpler to install than a Kreislauf type might have been.
Q Not conspicuous! Do you know what people have said about you? If a camp ordered 1 ton of gas a month, throughout 2 years, and you didn’t notice it, then you are either moronic or you don’t want to know it. You know that the entire Auschwitz camp can be gassed with 120 kg.
Nyiszli totally invented these after-gassing scenes. Since hydrocyanic vapors are lighter than air, the diffusion of gas in the gas chambers would not rise from the floor to the ceiling. The gassing victims would have no occasion to climb over one another to escape the poison gas—the contrary, if anything.[29] Nyiszli also incorrectly wrote that the crematoria were located two kilometers from the Birkenau Camp.  In reality, the crematoria were located inside the camp.[30]
The substantial evidence for genocide before the IMT came from the Soviet government’s ‘Statements on Nazi Atrocities’ and the testimonies and affidavits of five former members of the regime, Erich von dem bach Zelewski, Otto Ohlendorf, Dieter Wisliceny, Wilhelm Hoettl and Rudolf Höss. There were also eyewitness statements from camp survivors and Graebe’s affidavit regarding the Einsatzgruppen.
Then the Germans arrived shooting anyone moving. Many prisoners were killed, and the escape failed. Sevillias learned later that the operation had been betrayed by another prisoner hoping for a reward. When the workers in the crematorium realized this, they grabbed the axes and tried to run away, but the Germans caught up with them.
It is unanimously claimed by Holocaust historians that the Treblinka II extermination camp began its operation with the arrival of the first of the transports from the Warsaw Ghetto, which departed on 22 July 1942 and reached the camp the same or the following day. This means that Mikołajczyk reported on the alleged extermination actions at Treblinka a whole two weeks before they are supposed to have commenced. Even more remarkable, it is alleged that a machinery of mass murder was in operation at Treblinka three and a half months earlier, on 23-24 March 1942. According to the official version of events the Jews evacuated from the Lublin area at this time (the second half of March) were sent to be murdered in the Bełżec camp, which had opened on 17 March 1942.[8] There can be no confusion with the third Aktion Reinhardt camp, Sobibór, since that camp opened only in early May 1942.
The witness also gives the testimony of one of his friends, a reporter in a newspaper, who worked as a Sonderkommando. He describes a gassing in Crematorium II as follows:
“To accelerate the job, they had made two ‘bunkers’ (that name had various usages at the camps), gigantic. Those that worked there describe them as 2 huge concrete pools which had at their edges one Decauville railway track. At the bottom they placed large planks, on which they placed the corpses brought by the rail wagons, which came directly from the suffocation chambers, then a second layer of firewood, new corpses, then a third, fourth and so on, until the pit was full. They sprinkled everything with plenty of gasoline, and they set fire. Each bunker, which was divided into 4 compartments, could hold more than 500 bodies. The flames could be seen from many kilometers away. When someone would first see the fire, he would think that the forest around the macabre place was on fire. That time, spring of ’44, there was a shortage of Zyklon (the asphyxiant gas) for 2 weeks. During that time, they would throw the victims alive into the flames.” (p. 107)
Remark: All in all, J. Baynac says: “There is no evidence but I believe”, whereas a revisionist thinks: “There is no evidence, therefore I refuse to believe and it is my duty to dispute.”
Wilhelm Ornstein, a Polish inmate assigned to the crematory in Mauthausen, also testified that there was a gas chamber at Mauthausen as described by Jack Taylor. Ornstein described other means of executing inmates, including so-called neck shots and hangings.[6]
In March 2006, former US President George W. Bush publicly admitted that concerns about Iran's alleged nuclear weapons program derive largely from the threat it poses to Israel. In his own words: "The threat from Iran is, of course, their stated objective to destroy our strong ally Israel."[101] In September of 2007, he invoked the Holocaust ideology in order to "justify" any possible American or Israeli attack upon Iran. A respected British news source, quoting a former Bush aide, claimed his rhetoric was a precise attempt to link Iran's quest for nuclear weapons and desire to wipe Israel off of the map with Hitler's destruction of the Jews. "Iran's active pursuit of technology that could lead to nuclear weapons," Bush was quoted as saying, "threatens to put the region already known for instability and violence under the shadow of a nuclear holocaust."[102]
The previous year Thälmann had already been taken into “protective custody,” and wound up in Buchenwald. McDonough repeats the usual claim that Thälmann was executed there in August 1944, having been kept in solitary confinement.57 At the time the Allies were bombing Buchenwald and hundreds of internees died. The official claim was that Thälmann had died in a bombing raid. While Thälmann was lauded as a martyr in post-war Soviet Germany there are several inconsistences in the official version of his martyrdom and even as to the camp at which he died. What is curious is a passing allusion to Thälmann by Paul Rassinier, French pacifist leader, interned at Buchenwald and Dora. He mentions that he briefly encountered Thälmann at Buchenwald when he “felt a terrible blow,” having been distracted by a conversation and straying a little from a line of internees. Someone explained: “You could have been more careful; that’s Thälmann.”58 From this bare mention it seems that Thälmann was a Kapo.
British prosecutor Sir Hartley Shawcross echoed Jackson’s words in his final address to the IMT. Based on Jewish influence, numerous other Holocaust-related trials were later held in West Germany, Israel and the United States, including the highly publicized trials in Jerusalem of Adolf Eichmann and John Demjanjuk.[34]
The Saar inhabitants, who voted overwhelmingly to return to Germany were mostly industrial workers—Social Democrats or Roman Catholics. They knew what awaited them in Germany:  a dictatorship, the destruction of trade unions, and restrictions on freedom of expression.[14] They knew of the establishment of the Dachau Prison Camp and the execution of scores of SA members in the Röhm purge on June 30, 1934. The German economy in January 1935 was also not substantially better than that of France or other countries in Europe. The Saar election was evidence that the appeal of German nationalism was powerful.
And not just bullets: Longerich continues the story that "gas vans…were commissioned for use in the occupied Eastern areas" (p. 240). But he offers neither details, evidence, nor numbers killed.
At the trial itself the six million number was evidenced by the testimony of Wilhelm Höttl. (Hearsay evidence in Wisliceny’s testimony suggested five million). Höttl worked under Kaltenbrunner in the RSHA and provided an affidavit on the 25th November 1945. The affidavit (doc no. 2738-PS) was read to the court on Thursday 13th December. It was a recollection of a conversation Höttl had with Adolf Eichmann, in which he had apparently suggested the number of Jewish dead to be around six million. This piece of hearsay was the main substantiation used for the six million figure at Nuremberg. Many courts, in various parts of the world, would not have accepted such evidence as valid. The IMT, however, in keeping with article twenty-three of their charter deemed the evidence to have ‘probative value’ and so admitted it. If, during the course of the trial it had been corroborated by some other evidence, in particular a German document from the RSHA or the SS, detailing what they were doing, or a memo from one department to another in which the progress of the Holocaust was discussed, then the decision to admit the item would have been justified. But it was not. The six million claim, first suggested by the World Jewish Congress, was upheld by the IMT and included in their final judgment and is still upheld by popular history today, on the basis of an affidavit, obtained by an American interrogator, (Frederick L. Felten), during a time when many such affidavits were obtained by dubious means. The relevant section of the document is transcribed below.
The Holocaust story has been repeatedly used to justify Israel’s aggression against its neighbors. Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin justified the demolition of an alleged Iraqi nuclear facility in June 1981 with the words:[10]
And yet, McLaren’s work appears to be solidly within the historical revisionist milieu. McLaren has done investigation, he has interviewed witnesses, he has conducted forensic studies. If right, McLaren would be correcting an important historical controversy that has defied scholars and the general public for 50 years.
His memoir Geiger in Auschwitz was published in 1993, in English in 1996, and in Greek in 1997 under the title I Chose Life.[1] Let’s see what we can find in it that either supports or undermines the orthodox narrative.
In the years after 1945, the executions were not discussed much. The shock of the discovery of concentration camps was one factor. The camps had survivors, found in place, who told their unimaginable tale. By contrast, the local executions terrorized and silenced survivors in the eastern regions. In addition, after World War II, many witnesses were left behind the Iron Curtain, and no one was interested in their memories.
I use the words “alleged fact” quite deliberately, because the transfer of these 1,500 Gypsies from Birkenau to Auschwitz is not attested to by any document; it is based on a single testimony. Here, by contrast, it would be appropriate to refer to the Hauptbuch des Zigeunerlagers (Gypsy camp main register), containing notations of variations (deaths, transfers, etc.) of all Gypsies, both men and women, registered at Birkenau. While the registers related to men and women are damaged in part, an analysis of this content permits one to form a precise idea of the presumed transfer to Auschwitz in question. The following table reproduces the data related to Gypsy transfers to the Auschwitz main camp:
“According to Roman justice, to prove a crime two witnesses were necessary. For the crimes of Nazism, the numerous testimonies (18,000 by 1960) replaced the evidence that the perpetrators tried meticulously to eliminate.” (p. 8)
Unfortunately, the more prosaic reality proves that Jewish organizations have in fact jammed a wedge under the door they themselves opened by diligently working to outlaw all forms of independent inquiry pertaining to the gas chambers of Auschwitz.
By contrast, the German public was not aware of a program of extermination of European Jewry during the war. Nowhere in the archives, which contain mountains of intercepted cipher messages and the reports on bags of mail captured from enemy ships and from overrun enemy positions, is there the slightest evidence that a program of genocide against Jews was known by the German public.[27]
When witness accounts about the murky events of Mogilev in September 1941 began to filter to Israel, certain people may have been reminded of the photographs which had been fabricated 1949 as “evidence”. Apparently they could not resist the temptation to make renewed use of these forgeries and passed them on to the German authorities. To their credit, the German public prosecutors were prudent enough to consider “further investigation about the origin of the photograph necessary”, and the pictures were not used as evidence at the trial.
Butz’s Hoax of the Twentieth Century is not a work attractive to those who know what they want to believe irrespective of dispositive argument. It is a work attractive only to those who wish to assess the evidence and reasoning behind what they believe, and who are open to changing what they believe in accordance with such evidence and arguments. It is challenging to the intellectually honest, and insufferably burdensome to those who prefer to base their beliefs upon mere sentiment. All this goes double for Dissecting the Holocaust, which is so formidable on the score of both data and technical analysis that the devotees of intellectual expediency must dismiss it out of hand as obfuscatory mumbo-jumbo, leaving the daunting analytic task of merely reading it to those whose search for the truth and its foundations is truly indefatigable.
Was würden Sie machen, wenn da jemand herkommt und Ihnen auf friedliche und womöglich gar wissenschaftlich-sachliche Weise etwas zu Auschwitz sagt, was Sie partout nicht hören wollen? Das ist fast schon eine rhetorische Frage in einer Gesellschaft, bei der ein fast monolithischer Konsens darüber besteht, was mit derlei tabubrechenden Geschichtsdissidenten zu geschehen hat.
Violence perpetrated by the National Socialists can be seen in the context of a successful campaign for the movement to gain recognition on the street, usually in cities that were overwhelmingly represented by their political rivals, in which the National Socialists were a minority, and thus had to respond forcefully according to the atmosphere of the time to gain a foothold in the political scene.[15] So, when the National Socialists embraced violence, it was to prompt a political breakthrough for the NSDAP from the periphery of politics, which would show Germans who weren’t politically active that there was a contingent of the population who would fight for German interests, and against the injustice their nation had been saddled with. It was this message that resonated with Germans, which can be evidenced by the fact that the NSDAP, more so than any other party, was able to mobilise unprecedented support from non-voters. In both the September 1930 and July 1932 elections, the NSDAP gained, as one historian writes, “the lion’s share” of first-time voters, which coincided with growth in the SA. The same historian writes that “one might ask whether the SA’s recruits were converts from rival organisations or whether it, too, attracted many of the previously unaffiliated.” This was confirmed by statistics gathered on members of the SA.[16] The NSDAP was not only extremely successful at mobilising fresh support, but also at recruiting from their political rivals (mainly the KPD), while also being the least likely to lose members to other political movements. And whereas the violence of the SA was mostly directed at their political opponents who were also willing to engage in brawls, the violence of the KPD was primarily directed at the representatives of the state order.[17] This is contrary to what one expects when all that’s heard is how the “wicked Nazis” were trying to destroy German democracy. This, however, was a fact that Hitler didn’t deny. During his 1932 campaign trail, he openly admitted that the NSDAP was not a parliamentary party, and had no intention of preserving democracy, thus nobody could honestly claim to have been deceived by Hitler.[18] When the Third Reich came, everyone could have had some idea of what to expect, for it didn’t come out of the blue to blindside the German people. And although Hitler’s aims may have been “undemocratic”, despite what may be believed, they were certainly not illegal.[19]
For the official historiography, this fact is simply lethal! On 30 April 1942, a transport with 305 Jews arrived at Majdanek from Treblinka. One of these Jews, Samuel Zylbersztain, later wrote a report about his plight.[52] After the “extermination camp” Treblinka and the “extermination camp” Majdanek, Zylbersztain had survived eight “normal concentration camps”. He is thus a living proof that the Germans did not exterminate their Jewish prisoners.
Had Dr. Lipstadt done her homework, she would have had no problem finding out which revisionist publications existed back then, because in 1988, Italian Holocaust researcher Carlo Mattogno published a paper on the birth, development and criticism of Holocaust revisionism.[23] It lists all major revisionist works published in all languages which had appeared by the time that article was finalized, and it also lists reactions by mainstream authors to those publications. Dr. Lipstadt knew the English-language journal where that paper was published, because she mentions and quotes papers from it in her book many times.
In every murder trial the prosecution has the burden of proof to show the cause of death. Scientific evidence is the most-dispositive evidence to show the cause of death because physical evidence and scientific analysis thereof can be verified in an objective manner. Incredibly, in the biggest and most-publicized war-crimes trials of all time, the prosecution at the International Military Tribunal produced no autopsy reports nor expert reports on the existence and operation of the alleged homicidal gas chambers. Even in the Auschwitz Trial in Frankfurt in the mid-1960s and the Majdanek Trial in Düsseldorf in the late 1970s, the defense never thought to request a report on the alleged murder weapons, of which partial evidence remains today. In all of these trials the prosecution relied almost exclusively on eyewitness testimony to convict the defendants of murder.[1]
“Flossenbürg, Germany, Gas chambers, which were called showers.”[40]
Buergenthal writes that he was later transferred to Birkenau and lived in Camp Sector E, which had housed many thousands of Gypsy families.[10] Buergenthal explains how he was spared the selection process at Birkenau:[11]
A: What I could tell you could only be a repetition of what was told to me. That is hearsay, and I want to speak before this Tribunal only of things which I know by myself, in my own knowledge.
“There was no evidence here or anywhere else, indeed, that the British Political Warfare Executive had invented the story of the gas chambers.”
A. I assume that they were perhaps hot air chambers, but it is not allowed to build them like that, for that is not permitted by the law, that chambers must stand quite apart.
The Italian translation of Desbois's book Porteur de mémoires, mentioned above, was published with the title "Fucilateli tutti” La prima fase della Shoah raccontata dai testimoni[9] [Shoot Them All: The Initial Phase of the Shoah as Narrated by Witnesses]. The author describes his indefatigable search for eyewitnesses in the Ukraine, who, in filmed interviews, are said to have told him of the locations of the alleged mass graves of Jews shot by the Einsatzgruppen.
Alain Resnais's Holocaust documentary Nuit et brouillard (Night and Fog) is released. Lucie Adelsberger's testimony Auschwitz published in Germany. Gerald Reitlinger's book The SS: Alibi of a Nation is published in London. A German edition of Reitlinger's study The Final Solution (Die Endlösung) is published in Berlin. Ota Kraus and Erich Kulka's book Noc a mlha, later translated into German as Nacht und Nebel (Night and Fog), published in Prague. Helmut Krausnick's Dokumentation zur Massen-Vergasung (Documentation of Mass Gassings) is published in Bonn.
One wonders which one is harder to believe: That Nadjari was in such a good mood or that he set up a show in the crematorium?
According to the “morality” of Lipstadt, van Pelt, Wiesel, Sharon and the Jewish-Zionist power elite that they represent, European Christians are supposed to meekly accept the aforementioned statements as “the truth,” and any attempt to debunk certain Holocaust lies and exaggerations and their ensuing moral implications is of course “racist, evil and extremist.”
Meanwhile, I had had to wait until 1978-1979 for the daily Le Monde to publish two texts in which I demonstrated that the alleged Nazi gas chambers were technically impossible.3 On February 21, 1979, the same newspaper printed a “declaration” signed by 34 historians retorting to me: “One must not ask oneself how, technically, such a mass murder was possible; it was technically possible, since it happened”. This fine bit of academic asininity was but an escape hatch allowing its authors to shirk their duty and refuse any response to my arguments, which were mainly of a physical, chemical and architectural order, but also documentary and historiographical.
Immediately after Heydrich’s funeral on June 9, 1942, Hitler ordered the complete annihilation of the Bohemian village of Lidice. Lidice was targeted partly because Heydrich’s assassins had allegedly received support from the village’s inhabitants. Within hours German police units surrounded the village, and the male inhabitants were herded on to a farm and successively shot in groups of 10. A total of 172 men were murdered in Lidice on June 9, 1942, and all of the buildings were burned to the ground. The women of Lidice were deported to the Ravensbrück concentration camp while their children underwent racial screening to see if they were Germanizable. An additional 27 men from Lidice were later murdered, making a total of 199 men executed from Lidice.[19]
[22] RGVA 502‑1‑354‑8; July 9, 1942; see Rudolf (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust, Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield 2019, p. 326.
Judge Gray in his decision concluded that “no objective, fair-minded historian would have serious cause to doubt” the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz.[21] However, even with Gray’s dismissal of the Leuchter Report, the reports and testimony of Germar Rudolf, Walter Lüftl, Friedrich Paul Berg, Dr. William B. Lindsey, Dr. Arthur Robert Butz and other scientists were never refuted at the trial. Deborah Lipstadt and her team of experts were also not able to show how a homicidal gas chamber at Auschwitz actually operated.
Historians universally acknowledge that none of the Aktion Reinhardt camps had crematoria. By contrast, German concentration camps such as Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen and Dachau had crematoria even though mass killings are not alleged to have taken place at these camps. Why wouldn’t the Germans have also built crematoria at the Aktion Reinhardt camps, since such crematoria would have been far more-necessary to dispose of the bodies of the victims of the mass killings?[22]
The wall at the location where Samples 9 & 11 were taken showed a very intense, dark blue hue. The concomitant accumulation of Iron Blue on the surface is borne out by the very high amount of cyanide found there in comparison to the considerably lower, though still substantial amount in deeper layers. This surface accumulation is due to wall exposure to outdoor elements plus its direct contact with ground water. The Birkenau camp was erected in a swampy area: ground water slowly moving up through the wall and out towards the surface, where it evaporates, carries along soluble ions, including hexacyanoferrates, which subsequently accumulate at the walls’ surface. This is also supported by the visible pattern of blue hues produced by this process, which seems to reproduce the underlying brick structure of that wall, probably caused by the different heat conductivities – and thus water evaporation rates – of the underlying material.[26]
After arrival he recounts the common storyline that, upon “selection,” “the children, the elderly, and the invalids were…taken directly to the gas chambers.” As luck would have it, “our group was spared the selection process. The SS officers…probably assumed, since our transport came from a labor camp [Henrykow], that children and others not able to work had already been eliminated” (p. 65)—but why assume anything? Were the SS unable to recognize a child when they saw one? Wouldn’t every errant child, once spotted, be carted off for immediate gassing? Apparently not. Young Thomas and his father were then separated from his mother, but he would be reunited with her in late 1946. After a few months his father was taken away (“shipped out on a transport”), never to be seen again. So evidently all three Buergenthals survived their stay at this most notorious ‘death camp.’
Into 1940, Hitler ran off an impressive string of victories, culminating in the capture of Paris in June. Chamberlain resigned as prime minister, to be replaced by Churchill, who immediately initiated the ‘bases for destroyers’ plan with the US (see above).
[28] Canadian Jewish News, Toronto, Feb. 12, 1985, p. M3. See also Kulaszka, Barbara, (ed.), Did Six Million Really Die: Report of Evidence in the Canadian “False News” Trial of Ernst Zündel, Toronto: Samisdat Publishers Ltd., 1992, p. 270.
The paintings by former Auschwitz inmate David Olère, who claims to have lived in one of the Birkenau crematories for almost two years, give an artistic rendering of the general theme that pervades Auschwitz survivor statements. I give here only one example of the many Olère has drawn and painted, see Ill. 1.[2]
The Holocaust scholars will object that in American custody Blobel himself confessed having erased the traces of the massacres. He indeed did so[16], but such confessions were not worth the paper they were written upon. As an American commission reported in 1949, confessions had frequently been extorted by barbarous torture.[17] A well-known case is Rudolf Höss, who after three days of merciless beating by a British torture team led by the Jew Bernard Clark confessed to having gassed 2.5 million Jews up to November 1943.[18]
12. A centenary of denial: the case of the Armenian genocide
Played golf today with Joe Kennedy…. He said Chamberlain’s position in 1938 was that England had nothing with which to fight, and that she could not risk going to war with Hitler. Kennedy’s view: That Hitler would have fought Russia without any later conflict with England, if it had not been for Bullitt’s urging on Roosevelt in the summer of 1939 that the Germans must be faced down about Poland; neither the French nor the British would have made Poland a cause of war, if it had not been for the constant needling from Washington…. Chamberlain, he says, stated that America and the world Jews had forced England into the war. (Forrestal 1951: 121-122)
37. Aerial photograph of Auschwitz-Birkenau …, 1944.
In their brutal war against National Socialist Germany, Stalinist Communism utilized the Holocaust mythology as an important propaganda weapon in order to blacken the image of their hated enemy. On December 19, 1942, a “special statement” was issued by the Soviet Bureau of Information from Moscow, which reported on the alleged extermination of the European Jews. It read in part: “The cannibalistic plan elaborated by Hitler in the beginning of the current year provides for the concentration before the end of 1942 in the east of Europe, chiefly in the territory of Poland, of about 4,000,000 Jews for the purpose of murdering them.”[56]
News stories referred to Rosenberg as “an elite Nazi leader who had the ear of Adolf Hitler,”[12] a “Hitler Aide,”[13] an “influential Nazi,”[14] and a “Hitler Confidant.”[15] But who was Alfred Rosenberg and why should he have known of the Holocaust?
Hitler was convinced that Jews were ultimately responsible for World War II, and said so on many occasions.[29] A large body of evidence indicates that Jews had taken control of the American, British and Soviet governments prior to World War II. Hitler correctly stated that these Jews played a major role in instigating World War II to the detriment of non-Jewish citizens.
Comparisons with the 1946 performances of Rudolf Hֲöss, former commandant of the Auschwitz Concentration Camp, are irresistible, unless, of course, you feel Höss was spouting accurate (and informed) truths, instead of contrived stories, á la Scheherazade, to prolong or even save his life in the face of lethal charges by actors who had complete disposition not only of his own life, but of those (he was at least led to believe) of those whom he held most-dear, his wife and children.
Tolle’s support of the “Holocaust,” however, does serve a useful purpose. It not only enables him to sell books, but also enables him to travel to Israel and other countries without being arrested for the criminal offense of “Holocaust denial.”
In 1941, the first [large] internments of Jews from Slovakia a. [and] the district of Upper Sil. [Upper Silesia] were carried out. Those unable to work were gassed in the vestibule of the crematorium on orders of Himmler, which he gave me personally.
“A door labeled shower bath went into a large room, which is meant to deceive, since the room was not actually a shower room but a gas chamber. The room consisted of outlets in the walls, floor and roof.”
How about Jews actually transited to “the East”? Jean-Marie Boisdefeu has documented an interesting case he stumbled over while skimming Vad Vashem’s database of Holocaust victims.[22] This case, too, is based on a memorial book published by government authorities, in this case of Germany. It concerns the Berlin Jew Siegmund Rothstein, born in 1867, who was first deported to the Theresienstadt Ghetto for elderly Jews in August 1942. Barely a month later, however, on September 26, he was deported to Treblinka at the age of 75. But that was not his end at all, because the German authorities found life signs of him further east, as they finally determined that Rothstein died in Minsk, the capital city of Belarus, some 240 miles (286 km) east of Treblinka. I doubt 75-year-old Mr. Rothstein jumped off the train prior to arriving at Treblinka and ran all the way to German-occupied Minsk, Hence, he must have traveled there by train. I also doubt that the German authorities reserved a train just for him or put just him on a military train going to Minsk. Rather, he must have made that journey on a deportation train together with hundreds or thousands of fellow deportees from Theresienstadt.
According to Raul Hilberg, one million Jews perished at Auschwitz.[56] As it is unlikely that the number of Jews who died at Auschwitz from so-called “natural causes” (disease, exhaustion etc.) could have exceeded 100,000, this implies that about 900,000 Jews must have died in the “gas chambers” of that camp). So what does David Irving do? He claims that 2.4 million Jews, rather than Hilberg’s 1.5 million, were murdered at the three Reinhardt camps Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka, thus replacing the roughly 900,000 “Auschwitz gas chamber victims.”
François Fradin’s study makes clear that these and other leading revisionists do not resort to the arguments and methods of conspiratorialists. He chides some twenty other revisionists, mostly of the second tier, for conspiracism. Nearly all of them are publicists rather than scholars, and Fradin tends to fault them not so much for applying conspiracy theory to the Holocaust claims as for subscribing to the JFK, 9/11, and other alleged conspiracies. His mentions of them are often brief, and perhaps more admonitory than categorical.
Ed Carnes, former assistant Attorney General for the State of Alabama, generated a memorandum which he sent to all capital-punishment states warning that Leuchter was dangerous and should not be dealt with because he held “unorthodox’ views on executions. Carnes portrayed Leuchter as an avaricious con-man. Since Leuchter’s views on executions in the United States were widely known to be humane, it only seems reasonable to suggest that Carnes could only have been alluding to Leuchter’s “unorthodox” views regarding the alleged executions at Auschwitz-Birkenau.
In Spain, just two weeks prior to Christmas 1996, book confiscations and arrest were the order of the day when police raided the bookstore Librería Europa in Barcelona. Police seized the entire inventory of twenty thousand books, taking into custody bookstore owner Pedro Varela, who at the time of the raid was 39, on suspicion of “defending genocide.” Deprived of his freedom and livelihood, Varela was left with no other option than to close down his book business.
In sum: some unknown members of Kuhn, Loeb donated to Roosevelt; Paul’s brother (Felix) gave to Taft; and Schiff donated to Wilson. Cleverly, Paul Warburg himself admitted to no funding, but we can hardly take him at his word here. In any case, there was a Jewish hand in all three contestants, and the Jews were guaranteed influence with the winner, no matter the outcome. We don’t know the extent of this influence, nor how long it had gone on. To date I have not uncovered evidence of Jewish involvement with Roosevelt’s 1904 election, although his appointment of Straus to the cabinet is typical of the kind of political patronage that follows financial support. And the same with Taft: We don’t know the degree of Jewish support for his initial run in 1908, but support in 1912 suggests that they were reasonably satisfied with his performance.
The notion expressed by Kruk in his entry from 16 February 1942 that Jews from Łódź among other places were brought to Kovno merely to be shot there seems somewhat spurious in light of what the prominent Kovno Jew Avraham Tory entered into in his diary on 14 July 1942. Here we read that “four Jews from Łódź” had been brought to the Kovno Ghetto Hospital for surgery after having “spent a long time in a labor camp”.[124] We will also note here briefly that a number of witnesses report the presence of Polish Jews in the Baltic States. Most of them, unfortunately, do not specify where in Poland these Jews came from or when they had arrived to the occupied eastern territories. Jeanette Wolf, a German Jewess deported to Riga, writes in her memoirs of Polish Jews being interned in the Strasdenhof camp near Riga.[125] The German Jew Josef Katz repeatedly mentions the presence of Polish Jews in the Riga Ghetto and the Kaiserwald Concentration Camp (in the same city), including “Shmuel, a Jew from Łódź”.[126] In one of the undated notations made by Kruk after his deportation to Estonia, and which seems to refer to December 1943, we read that the camp elder in a camp in Narva (possibly the Vaivara subcamp Narva-Ost) was “the Galician Jew Zieler.”[127] Preserved file cards from the Estonian camp Klooga shows that at least 14 of the inmates there were Jews from Warsaw.[128] It is further reported that a smaller group of Polish Jews worked with cremating the bodies of executed political prisoners near the Estonian Tartu camp in November 1943.[129]
First, she admits that the orthodox Holocaust narrative rests almost exclusively on testimony:
"I hope that you will find the time to study the two huge books about the German Ordnungspolizei by Wolfgang Curilla (2006 & 2011). His admirable research is based on original German sources. It can no longer be denied that more than four million Jews were murdered by various units of German police etc. Hence the time has come to face the fact that Holocaust revisionism, or denial, is simply irresponsible CHUTZPAH".
- Mr Joseph Himmelstein, whose count of transfers stopped at a whopping 12 camps, including Majdanek and Birkenau.
As to remnants of homicidal gas chambers, this seems to be a wild-goose chase undertaken by the orthodoxy. While it is expected that some building remains have to be found in those camps, finding a “gas chamber” seems illusory, for how are we to decide whether the ruins of a building served as a chemical mass-slaughter facility? While it is possible to expect chemical traces of mass murder committed with hydrogen cyanide aka Zyklon B – in the form of long-term-stable Iron Blue[18] – the lethal gas which orthodox historians today claim was allegedly used in the Aktion Reinhardt Camps – engine-exhaust gases – would not have left any trace whatsoever. Hence, if some ruins containing tiles are discovered, as was the case at Treblinka, how are we to decide whether these tiles were part of an actual shower room, as revisionists claim, or of a homicidal gas chamber merely disguised as a shower room, as orthodox historians insist? As far as I can see, there is no way of telling the difference.
Despite Icke’s claim that Mengele performed cruel and lethal experiments, almost all of the twins Mengele enrolled in his research at Auschwitz survived the war. In fact, so many twins survived Mengele’s research that, in 1984, they helped form an association titled Children of Auschwitz Nazi Deadly Experiment Survivors (CANDLE). This association’s name is a misnomer, because if the experiments were deadly, how could there be so many survivors? Also, if young children unable to work had been immediately selected for gassing at Auschwitz as claimed by Holocaust historians, how could so many children at Auschwitz have survived the war?[8]
Evolutionary Biologist, atheist, and prominent critic of religion Richard Dawkins explains what he believes to be characteristic of religious fundamentalism: “Fundamentalists know they are right because they have read the truth in a holy book and they know, in advance, that nothing will budge them from their belief. The truth of the holy book is an axiom, not the end product of a process of reasoning. The book is true, and if the evidence seems to contradict it, it is the evidence that must be thrown out, not the book.”[104] On this issue of religious faith, again, here is what Dawkins writes: “Faith is evil precisely because it requires no justification and brooks no argument.”[105]
The Holocaust story is being used to increasingly restrict free speech. Moshe Kantor, president of the European Jewish Congress, spoke at the International Holocaust Remembrance Day at the European Parliament ceremony in Brussels on January 27, 2014. Kantor rejected free speech arguments over what he called the worldwide spread of anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism is “not an opinion—it’s a crime,” he said. Kantor apparently wants to criminalize any speech, symbols or gestures that Jews consider to be anti-Semitic.[39]
Morgue #2 (or “L”-Raum) was the alleged “undressing room” of the victims; therefore, even after the purportedly “criminal” modifications claimed by Pressac, the “undressing room” remained more ventilated than the “gas chamber”!
This "peasant cottage", therefore, had one single gas chamber with one single door. As I have already noted, this is in contradiction to the statements of Sz. Dragon and D. Paisikovic, both of whom in turn contradict each other.
All in all, the handling of the topic of Holocaust revisionism by the media in Australia during the past three years would appear to have been neither comprehensive nor impartial, this raising the question of how much they really are committed to free speech, their editorial claims notwithstanding.
In 1940, Churchill at last became Prime Minister, ironically enough when the Chamberlain government resigned because of the Norwegian fiasco — which Churchill, more than anyone else, had helped to bring about.[5] As he had fought against a negotiated peace after the fall of Poland, so he continued to resist any suggestion of negotiations with Hitler. Many of the relevant documents are still sealed — after all these years[6] — but it is clear that a strong peace party existed in the country and the government. It included Lloyd George in the House of Commons, and Halifax, the Foreign Secretary, in the Cabinet. Even after the fall of France, Churchill rejected Hitler's renewed peace overtures. This, more than anything else, is supposed to be the foundation of his greatness. The British historian John Charmley raised a storm of outraged protest when he suggested that a negotiated peace in 1940 might have been to the advantage of Britain and Europe.[7] A Yale historian, writing in the New York Times Book Review, referred to Charmley's thesis as "morally sickening."[8] Yet Charmley's scholarly and detailed work makes the crucial point that Churchill's adamant refusal even to listen to peace terms in 1940 doomed what he claimed was dearest to him — the Empire and a Britain that was non-socialist and independent in world affairs. One may add that it probably also doomed European Jewry.[9] It is amazing that seventy-five years after the fact, there are critical theses concerning World War II that are off-limits to historical debate.
Longerich states that the Einsatzgruppen and German Wehrmacht murdered many hundreds of thousands of Jews in the occupied Soviet territories. Since the bodies of these murdered Jews have not been found, Longerich and other Holocaust historians claim they were cremated in what is called Aktion 1005.[21] An article in the Encyclopedia of the Holocaust defines this operation: “Operation 1005, code name for a large-scale activity that aimed to obliterate the traces of the murder of millions of human beings by the Nazis in occupied Europe.”[22]
• Since our last visit, Yad Vashem has uncovered and registered the names of the Berlin Jews (more than 52,000 names); however, they had previously entered the names of the German Jews which already included the names of the Berlin Jews; therefore, these 52,000 Jews have been counted at least twice in the database; those who had been deported from the Netherlands or from France (several thousands, including 500 who were from Palatinate [Pfalz] and the Land of Baden, when the evacuation of the Jews from these areas to Gurs was organized) have thus been counted up to three times and those deported to Lodz might have been counted four times; there are also (and this detail speaks volumes about the Jewish casualness with statistics) 157 Norwegian Jews who have simply been transited through Berlin; some 1250 unfortunates who chose to commit suicide rather than abandon their homes have not been forgotten, but that is understandable. Those who were deported to Theresienstadt and to destinies which we will examine later in this article, are also counted at least three times, because Yad Vashem had already registered the nearly 15,000 entries relating to this camp; nevertheless, some of them might be counted a fourth time if they were transferred through Auschwitz and died there, since Yad Vashem has additionally registered the names in the camp’s Death Books once more, of which, contrary to what has been feared, they only entered the names that sound Jewish. An example other than Berlin: In Dubitando, no. 4,[3]  we have seen that the father of the Paris historian Henri Minczeles, who died at Auschwitz, was listed four times in the database; he is now included a fifth time.
What about the homicidal gas chambers? Note: Any windowless room, in any building anywhere, could in theory serve as a homicidal gas chamber. All one needs to do is force people into that room, throw in some pellets of Zyklon-B (a granular package for cyanide gas, used by the Germans and many other countries to disinfest clothing and personal items), and then wait 20 or 30 minutes. Of course, this could be hugely impractical, for many obvious reasons: (a) it’s very hard to force people into an enclosed space against their will, and keep them there; (b) it’s tricky to get the pellets into the room without poisoning yourself and (c) it’s very dangerous to extract the dead bodies without again poisoning yourself—they are infused with cyanide gas, after all, and the pellets themselves would continue to slowly release the gas for hours afterwards. You would somehow have to carefully aerate the whole room, over a period of several hours, and then cautiously remove the bodies and the pellets. And then, if you were to be “systematic” about the process, you would have to thoroughly clean out the entire room, top to bottom, to prepare it for the next batch of victims.
Black also acknowledges the help and influence of numerous pre-publication reader reviewers. Black utilized help not only from the leading historians of the “Holocaust,” but also from niche experts on various topics, as well as business historians, technical specialists, accountants, legal sources on reparations, and numerous other experts. All of these pre-publication reader reviewers influenced the manuscript in profound ways, immeasurably sharpening its precision (pp. 4, 16).
In 1997, the United States Holocaust Museum and a similar Polish organization decided to undertake archeological drillings and diggings within the area of the former camp at Belzec. The work was conducted by a team of archeologists led by Professor Andrzej Kola who published the results in 2000.[40] In his aforementioned book about Belzec, Carlo Mattogno performs a very detailed analysis of the Kola report, which I will presently summarize.
Probing the Holocaust: The Horror Explained (Part 1) presents surprising information which shed a new light on the horrific imagery and enables many viewers for the first time to truly understand what transpired in Germany during and at the end of the war. Watching this presentation with an open mind will surprise you and leave you asking questions of your own.
This brings up our next point: source criticism. A criticial attitude is the core of any scientific endeavour. No critical researcher should take evidence at face value. Even though material and documentary evidence have the highest value, there is always the possibility that they were simply misinterpreted, or that artifacts have been planted, evidence has been manipulated, and documents fabricated or tampered with. The more that is at stake, politically speaking, the more likely such manipulations usually are.
There is also much testimonial evidence indicating that more than just two Jewish transports departed from Minsk in September 1943:
Now, what is most interesting is that there are two women who actually saw their fathers after they had been told that they were dead. The first talked with him for a while and later received a note from him before eventually losing all contact (p. 27). The second found out that her father was at Buna and perished during the retreat (p. 143).
In any case, a horrific “Catch-22” arose in the prosecution of “war criminals” in occupied Germany after the War. Participants in the Recent Unpleasantness (of concentration camps) were divided up into two groups: Victims, and Accuseds. Victims were, for the most part, Jews, or people who could pass themselves off as Jews. With the returning Jewish-emigrant prosecutors, these formed the opposing “jaws” between which suspected Germans were easily and relentlessly crushed.
Finkelstein, who is Jewish, has long criticized the way Jews have handled the Holocaust and has called leaders of American-Jewish groups "Holocaust mongers." His views led the university to cancel Finkelstein's only course, "Equality in Social Justice," a week before fall classes began. According to the Chicago Tribune, Dean Chuck Suchar found Finkelstein's teachings to be conflicting with "DePaul's Vincentian Values" which include respect for the opinions of others—leading us to wonder why the university doesn't respect his.[43]
“September - October 1941. After the initial successes of the invasion of the Soviet Union the Fascist criminals abandoned all pretense to humanity. They were overcome with murderous frenzy and gave free rein to their bloodlust. In Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen 16,000 Russian prisoners of war, soldiers of the Red Army, were driven together like cattle and slaughtered in the most horrendous way. On the grounds of the so-called industrial yard there were four mobile crematorium ovens by means of which the bodies were uninterruptedly disposed of. Their ashes were the ground on which the new crematorium was built. Before the people were slain, strangled, kicked to death or killed in other fanciful ways by the beasts, they were fiendishly tormented. The SS transformed these orgies of murder into real celebrations. Brandy flowed like water, and the loudspeakers drowned out the cries of the victims. The killers did not care to make sure that the victims were dead before being cremated; many of them were still alive when they were shoved into the ovens.
What do I mean by hyper-racist? Well, just as some individuals in capitalist societies gravitate to the top and become hyper-capitalists (i.e., billionaire CEOs), even though they may not believe in the capitalist system of government per se, the same may be said of many powerful and prosperous individuals in ethnostates and their societies. Numerous Nazis were not adamant “racists,” and those particular Nazis (including Hitler) tended to fall by the wayside as far as political power was concerned. The hyper-racists, like hyper-capitalists, tended to be extremely ambitious and power-hungry individuals. Some may not have even been all that racist, but played the role in order to advance politically and personally. Himmler may well have been one of these hyper-racists, since he was so excited about (and accommodating of) Arab-Semites, Slavic Eastern volunteers, and Gypsies so early on. His demonstrated racial tolerance causes one to ask whether he was really as racist as he made himself out to be. Antonio Muñoz’ findings as well as photographic evidence featured in Borsarello and Palinckx’s Wehrmacht and SS indicate that he was open to recruiting Senegalese and Afro-British POWs to serve Germany in some capacity as well (not necessarily in combat). Thus, just as Richard Steigmann-Gall exposed Bormann’s hyper-anti-Christianity in his book The Holy Reich: Nazi Conceptions of Christianity, 1919-1945, many historians have similarly exposed Himmler’s hyper-racism—perhaps inadvertently.
Proponents of the orthodox Holocaust story, however, cannot concede that there were no gassings with Zyklon B in the alleged-homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau. They have made the following attempts to explain away the results of forensic tests showing no significant cyanide residues in the alleged gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau:[3]
In December 1942, Churchill was shown a report from a Polish Catholic member of the Resistance, Jan Karski. He claimed to have seen Jews being forced with great brutality into cattle cars, and then taken to an unknown “extermination location.”[45] In response, Anthony Eden of the War Cabinet wanted to issue a public declaration. “It was known,” he asserted, “that Jews were being transferred to Poland from enemy-occupied countries, for example, Norway: and it might be that these transfers were being made with a view to wholesale extermination of Jews.”[46] (Notice that Eden said the exterminations “might be” happening, and not that they were in fact happening. This suggests that he was skeptical of the “evidence” regarding the alleged mass exterminations of Jews. More on Eden in a moment.)
The Pope is again repeating a similar error in regard to the Holocaust ideology. By bowing to pressure from international Jewish-Zionist organizations and elevating the Holocaust ideology to the status of an unquestionable dogma, the Vatican has inserted religious belief into a debate that should be based on historical documentation and research. By taking the path of least resistance, the Vatican has neither served the Christian world that looks to it for guidance nor the cause of truth in history.
The principle of the presumption of innocence goes hand in hand with another cardinal principle of Australian justice, which is that an accused shall have a fair trial. For many reasons it has always been very doubtful that Zentai would have enjoyed a fair trial, once extradited. Too many doubts exist about the integrity of the allegations against him, which were made in the infamous People’s Court of Budapest, a communist institution operating in a period (1947-48) of post-war hysteria and recrimination. Indeed, the witness statements against him may have been obtained by torture. An Australian court is unlikely to have given credence to such evidence, but such is not so clear about a Hungarian military tribunal (which Zentai was to have faced), given the facts that Hungary chose to seek extradition on that basis and has recently arrested a man of 97, Laszlo Csatary, to face analogous charges. Moreover, documents necessary for Zentai’s defense may have been lost or corrupted, and his accusers and other witnesses he may have needed are dead, so that cross examination, an essential for justice, would not have been possible.
Third and last we have the emphasis on the word “shower”. Compare this with the statement of Polish prisoner Jan Sulkowski (quoted in Arad's book on the Reinhardt camps): “I was told by the SS men that we were building a bath-house and it was after a considerable time that I realized that we were constructing gas-chambers.” This implies that the Germans either went to extreme lengths to disguise homicidal gas chambers as shower rooms, or that they actually built shower rooms for a delousing facility. In this context it is worth mentioning a letter sent from Treblinka commandant Irmfried Eberl to the commissar for the ghetto in Warsaw, Dr. Heinz Auerswald, on 19 June 1942 (i.e. some 1 month before the opening of the camp), in which he ordered the following “still needed” items for the Treblinka camp:[6]
Shortly after this televised episode, Leuchter was contacted by the Engineering Board of the State of Massachusetts following a formal complaint filed by Shelly Shapiro’s Holocaust Survivors and Friends in Pursuit of Justice, organization. Details of the complaint were withheld from Leuchter until such time as the matter was resolved in court, but the board added ominously that Leuchter would have to cease practicing his profession in the State of Massachusetts or face criminal charges.
Venezia never mentioned that he used a gas mask during his work. Without a gas mask, Venezia and the other Sonderkommandos would have been killed in turn. The ventilators could not have completely exhausted the gas from the alleged gas chambers in only 20 minutes. More important, there would always have been residues of the toxic gas among the bodies that would be released as they were moved. A gas mask would have been required for the Sonderkommandos to remove the corpses from the homicidal gas chambers without being gassed themselves.[30]
Only two transports from the west to Kovno (Kaunas) are known by mainstream historiography for the period in question: one carrying an unknown number of German Jews from Berlin on 17 November 1941, and one with 995 Jews from Vienna departing on 23 November 1941. The mention of Jews from Łódź and Upper Silesia are of particular interest. As already mentioned, the first Jews sent to be “gassed” at Auschwitz are reported to have been Jews from Upper Silesia, and as seen above, Kruk on 30 January 1942 witnessed a convoy of Jews from that part of Poland passing through Vilna on their way to the eastern front. From January 1941 onward, Jews from Łódź are alleged to have been gassed at the Chełmno camp.
The apparent plans for waterway mass deportations using barges or similar eventually came to naught, at least if we are to believe our cautiously semi-heretical German Holocaust historian:
Yet 1933, the year when Hitler assumed control, is not as far back as such analysis can be taken. In an article entitled, ‘The Crucifixion of Jews must Stop!’ which appeared in a magazine called ‘American Hebrew,’ a former governor of the state of New York, Martin H. Glynn described the plight of Eastern European Jews as a ‘catastrophe in which 6 million human beings are whirled toward the grave…’ He even went as far as to describe this as a ‘threatened holocaust of human life.’[17] His article was written not as a comment on events in Nazi Germany, but about anti-Semitism in Russia, in 1919, just after the end of World War One, thirteen years before Hitler would form any sort of government.
A famous case where that hypothesis might be falsified occurred in 1939, when the German ocean Liner City of Saint Louis was denied permission in Cuba, the United States and Canada to disembark some 908 German Jews seeking to leave Nazi Germany. US immigration policy, operating as it has (pre-Trump) only on nationalities rather than religion, is nothing if not patchy, depending not only on various points of official discretion but further on national (political) sentiment. The Saint Louis affair is one that has become a byword to those promoting a view of German official anti-Semitism as genocide, despite the survival of at least 75 percent of the passengers on the “voyage of the damned.”
The feeling now prevailing in the United States is marked by a growing hatred of Fascism and, above all, of Chancellor Hitler and everything connected with Nazism. Propaganda is mostly in the hands of the Jews, who control almost 100 percent radio, film, daily and periodical press. Although this propaganda is extremely coarse and presents Germany as black as possible—above all religious persecution and concentration camps are exploited—this propaganda is nevertheless extremely effective, since the public here is completely ignorant and knows nothing of the situation in Europe. …
Camp Sobibor was located in a sparsely populated, woody and swampy area of eastern Poland. According to the orthodox Holocaust story, the first stage of the extermination operation went on for three months, from the beginning of May to the end of July 1942, during which 90,000 to 100,000 Jews were allegedly murdered. The second stage of the purported murder operation ran from October 1942 to September 1943, which brought the total number of Jews killed to approximately 250,000, the official etched-in-stone Sobibor statistic. At first, the bodies were buried in trenches. At the end of the summer of 1942, the burial trenches were opened and the burning of the victims’ corpses was begun. A prisoner revolt broke out on October 14, 1943, and some three hundred prisoners managed to escape, but most were later killed. In the aftermath of the uprising, the Germans destroyed the camp. By the end of 1943, the official story says that no trace of Sobibor was left.[3]
Finally, a series of twelve photos showing real execution gas chambers (in the United States) with their doors and, at the bottom, four photos showing the doors of a false gas chamber (at Auschwitz).
The reader should take note of this oddity. In 1962, SS man Erich Bauer mentioned a Ukrainian who had been on duty at the alleged gas chambers of Sobibor, who went by the name of Iwan and was nicknamed “The Terrible.” Holocaust historian Jules Schelvis suggested that perhaps Bauer was referring to John Demjanjuk.[2] The Israeli Supreme Court already acquitted Demjanjuk with regard to the allegations that he was the notorious “Ivan the Terrible” of Treblinka. Will the international Holocaust lobby attempt to make Demjanjuk into a new mythological character, “Ivan the Terrible” of Sobibor?
Prof. Deborah Lipstadt in her critically acclaimed book on “Holocaust denial” refers to Yockey as having “laid the essential elements of Holocaust denial,” twenty years prior to the formation of the Institute for Historical Review.[25] What Lipstadt cites is a paragraph from Imperium, which we can safely assume was based on Yockey’s first-hand observations and study of primary sources; an inconvenience that Lipstadt prefers to address by means of ad hominem. Indeed, while Lipstadt proceeds over several pages to critique Yockey and Imperium she does not appear to have actually read Imperium, but apparently relied on a magazine article.[26]
[xiii] Ball, John C., Air Photo Evidence: Auschwitz, Treblinka, Majdanek, Sobibor, Bergen Belsen, Belzec, Babi Yar, Katyn Forest, Delta, B.C., Canada: Ball Resources Services Limited, 1992, p. 107.
With respect to “necessary severity” it should be mentioned that Germany’s “Holocaust-denial” laws are so bizarrely formulated and interpreted that, for example, whosoever should publicly declare that the First World War never took place, would perhaps provoke in people a few smiles or chuckles, and certainly would not find themselves tossed into a prison for five years. By comparison, if one were to state, under present German law, that the Second World War never occurred, an energetic state prosecutor could draw from that statement the conclusion that one was also implying that the Holocaust never occurred, and for that reason the hapless culprit might soon find himself handcuffed by the police and charged with “Holocaust denial.”
The figure of 14,000 Russian POWs allegedly shot at Sachsenhausen is mentioned a third time in connection with the arrest of the former commandant of the camp, Loritz, by the British. According to the authors of the report, he was
In the early 1980s, the late Revisionist scholar Dr. Charles Weber wrote a very important, but now largely forgotten essay concerning the non-Jewish groups that promote and benefit from the Holocaust mythology. "Obvious though the usefulness of the ‘Holocaust’ material to Zionists may be, it continuous exploitation by various non-Jewish groups in various lands for various reasons is of a continuing importance that heretofore has not been generally realized. As corrosive, divisive and destructive as the ‘Holocaust’ material and extermination thesis are, we must certainly not consider Jews exclusively responsible for their continued propagation,” Weber stated.[30]
But alas! Ambiguity in relation to the Holocaust has reared its head again in post-communist Russia. As Russia authority Jonathan Brent points out: “In 2001, a notion to condemn anti-Semitism was rejected again by the Duma, and in April 2001, Vladimir Zhirinovsky and other deputies protested effectively against observing a minute of silence to commemorate the victims of the Holocaust on Soviet soil—approximately one half of all Jews murdered by the Nazis.”[64]
Eight Sobibor survivors chosen by a Holocaust museum in the USA could not testify they had seen Demjanjuk at Sobibor. Patrick Buchanan on 14th April 2009 noted: ‘One witness in Israel who was at Sobibor and says he knew all the camp guards, says he never saw Demjanjuk there.’
The historians who cooperated with Venezia in this publishing project[263] show all the shortcomings of an atavistic ineptitude. Their most obvious contribution, in the text, is limited to a mere terminological revision[264] and to the introduction of the technical terminology[265] which was formerly absent, but not without a few blunders, such as in the case of the " Leichenkeller" or the term "Stücke". The presentation of the explanatory notes[266] is wretched and sloppy. But it is not only a question of ineptitude. In the essay "The Shoah, Auschwitz and the Sonderkommando"[267], the Auschwitz "specialist" Marcello Pezzetti[268], in the bibliography, mentions the book by Gideon Greif "Wir weinten tränenlos... Augenzeugenberichte der jüdischen "Sonderkommandos" in Auschwitz" which I have cited several times. The idea of the iconography Sonderkommando Auschwitz is clearly taken from this work: it contains in fact all the images which appear there[269]. Notwithstanding that, M. Pezzetti has not informed the reader of the very important fact that the work by G. Greif compiles the testimony of four supposed companions from the "Sonderkommando" of Venezia, among them the cousin Yakob Gabbai. This serious oversight becomes crucial in view of the incredible contradictions which such testimony presents in comparison to that of Venezia. We must therefore suspect rather an intentional and covert silence.
On 16th January 1993 News Weekly published some more damaging information about the OSI: ‘One former prosecutor, George Parker, stated under oath that he had sent a memo to his superiors warning that to proceed with the Treblinka allegations would violate professional ethics. Parker produced a copy of the memo – the existence of which has been repeatedly denied by government lawyers. It carefully details that the evidence presented two factually irreconcilable scenarios regarding Demjanjuk’s alleged whereabouts during World War II.’ The first placed him in Treblinka, the second at Sobibor at the same period. ‘We have little admissible evidence that the defendant was at Sobibor,’ the memo stated. News Weekly’s report continued: ‘Parker and former colleague Martin Mendelsohn have testified about the degree of pressure brought on the OSI by a former member of Congress, Joshua Eilberg of Pennsylvania. Eilberg wrote to the then Attorney-General Griffin Bell to say that the Justice Department “could not afford to lose” the Demjanjuk case. Parker told the court that he left the OSI because he could not ethically continue to prosecute Demjanjuk on the Treblinka charges. He said that his misgivings were dismissed by his superiors.’
Wiesel also mentioned in Night that he had surgery on an infected foot in January 1945. The German authorities at Birkenau gave Wiesel and other hospital patients unfit to travel the option to remain in the camp. Wiesel and his father decided to evacuate Birkenau and travel to Buchenwald with the Germans rather than be liberated by the Russian army.[5]
The Auschwitz delousing chambers under investigation here had received a coat of white lime paint. Adding another layer of paint to it would have made little sense. Also, any layer of paint leaves behind a pattern of brush strokes and a defined layer containing the pigment together with the other components of the paint, such as binders, fillers and additives, which usually make up the bulk of the paint, none of which has been detectable in the cases examined here.
Mainstream Holocaust historian Leon Poliakov pointed out decades ago that there are no documents to prove that the Nazis ever had any plan to exterminate the Jews of Europe: "[T]he campaign to exterminate the Jews, as regards its conception as well as many other essential aspects, remains shrouded in darkness. Inferences, psychological considerations, and third- or fourth-hand reports enable us to reconstruct its development with considerable accuracy. Certain details, however, must remain forever unknown. The three or four people chiefly involved in the actual drawing up of the plan for total extermination are dead and no documents have survived; perhaps none ever existed.”[27]
The reports and testimonies differ significantly in the details. The Soviet investigator Lt. Colonel Sharitch writes in his Final Report[66] that five men were shot in the night of 1/2 February, “together with a group of other prisoners containing altogether 189 men who were brought to the area of the crematorium and shot there.” The details of what transpired in that February night are unknown. Alfred Roe (who lay with typhus in the camp hospital) and Keith Mayor survived at first. On 26 February Roe was transferred to Bergen-Belsen, but retransferred to Sachsenhausen on 9 April 1945. Sharitch quotes here the official German Veränderungsmeldung (daily roll call report) from 11 April 1945, which said that Roe had been shot the day before ”while trying to escape“. Keith Mayor was transferred on 20 February to Buchenwald, and nothing was known about his further fate. Generally, Sharitch relied in his narration on several inmate witnesses (Hans Apel, Gulsmit, Otto Heiler, Paul Sakowski), and there is no doubt that – in this case – the Soviet side tried to find out the truth. The question is whether the witnesses knew or always told the truth. According to later British sources, [67] Mayor and Roe had been transferred to Belsen concentration camp, where Mayor was executed on 7 April 1945 and Roe died of typhus.
“We Germans, in spite of the repeated assurances to the contrary of our puppet politicians, are politically and intellectually no longer a sovereign nation since our defeat in the Second World War. Our political subservience, which is apparent in the fact of the breaking up of the Reich and the incorporation of the individual pieces into the extant power blocks of the East and of the West, has had as its consequence a corresponding intellectual subservience. Escape from this intellectual subservience is prevented primarily by the guilt complex inculcated in most Germans through the “reeducation” instituted in 1945. This guilt complex is based primarily on the Holocaust Legend. Therefore, for we Germans the struggle against what I have called the “Auschwitz Myth” is so frightfully important.”
"The evidence for gas vans is also convincingly established."
Orthodox Holocaust scholars reject the revisionist claim that the so-called Aktion Reinhardt Camps were transit camps for Jewish deportees on their way to the East. They challenge revisionists to show them one Jew, one single Jew, who was deported through any of those camps and survived. This paper presents evidence of thousands of Jews for whom those camps were mere layover stations.
As of late 2016, their database contained about 4½ million names,[7] but they no longer claim that all of them are unique or even victims of the Holocaust. In fact, their website now has a list of frequently asked questions (FAQ) which sheds some light onto the significance of their data.[8] For instance, next to the obvious victims of the Holocaust, they admit there that their database also includes as victims those who died as a result of armed resistance, who died up to six months after the liberation (until the end of October 1945) as well as Jews who died during flight, evacuation and deportation from the advancing German army. (Answer to the question “How do you define a Shoah victim?”) On the origin of the names, Yad Vashem gives three main sources: a large part stems from submissions “primarily by survivors, remaining family members or friends; another part comes from local projects aiming at determining the identities of Jews who lived at certain places before the war. The last part originates from official, mainly German wartime documents.
The terms “Holocaust denial” and “anti-Semitism” are hopelessly bound together in the public consciousness. In an article published this November on a blog page of the Chicago Sun-Times, it was reported that the US State Department’s Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism, Hannah Rosenthal, would pay particular attention to a growing level of Holocaust denial.[1] The article goes on to report that Rosenthal, the daughter of a survivor of the Buchenwald camp, conducted a group of seven American imams and Muslim community leaders to the sites of the former concentration camps of “Dachau and Auschwitz where millions were systematically murdered by Nazi Germany.” The article concludes with the statement that Rosenthal managed to get from the imams bearing witness to the tragedy of the Holocaust.
If you ask veteran revisionists what led to this radical change of affairs, some would surely cite the retirement of Ernst Zündel. Since the later 1990s, when Ernst Zündel declared victory in the Holocaust battle and decided to devote his talents to matters less heretical, things have never been quite the same. Though we’ve had several successes since Zündel’s departure, the worldwide revisionist movement has undeniably lost a certain spark since his departure. By chronicling the charisma and creativity that Zündel showed during his long fight for historical truth, Michael Hoffman’s book—which has been updated to commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary of Zündel’s 1985 False News trial—provides a valuable glimpse into why it was so important for the Holocausters to muzzle this eccentric German-Canadian artist who had galvanized and electrified a movement.
2) On 17.9 in the afternoon, I passed on to Reichsleiter Bormann the writing of the Reich Minister of the 7th Chamber on the case of Frank, as well as on the development of National Socialism and Christianity. Likewise, I informed the Reichsleiter that Dr. Stellrecht was to be successor to Stabsleiter [Gotthard] Urban, and who would soon be reporting to Reichsleiter Bormann in this capacity, and [furthermore] that on this occasion he should also be changed from Obergebietsführer to the appropriate political rank. The Reichsleiter apparently gladly accepted everything, and said that he would discuss this with Dr. Stellrecht during his next stay in Berlin in about 10 days. The letter of the Reich Minister to Reichsleiter Bormann, which I had announced, was not of great importance and would also be discussed here in the FHQ over the next few days.
The initial ventilation system of Leichenkeller I, which was designed for a basement morgue, is not a ‘definitive’ obstacle to using the room as a gas chamber.” (bold Pressac’s; underscore added here)
“It results from the report of the Extraordinary State Commission about the crimes committed at the Yanov camp that in this camp, which formally passed for a simple labor camp, more than 200,000 Soviet citizens[5] were killed according to the investigations of the forensic experts. I confine myself to quoting the first paragraph of the Russian text on page 261:
Robert Faurisson, Mémoire en defénse contre ceux qui m'accusent de falsifier l'histoire. La question des chambres à gaz (Memoir in Defense Against the Accusation that I am Falsifying History: The Question of the Gas Chambers)
Lüftl stated that although the hydrocyanic acid contained in Zyklon B can kill humans quickly and certainly, the handling requirements for Zyklon B rule out any significant use of Zyklon B for the mass killing of people. Lüftl states that during the ventilation process after a gassing, Zyklon B would still retain approximately 92% of its hydrocyanic acid content, and would thus continue releasing hydrocyanic-acid gas. Lüftl asked: How could the gas chamber operators get rid of the remaining Zyklon B from the midst of dead corpses, without lengthy ventilation periods, and without causing mass deaths outside the gas chambers? Lüftl concluded that because of operational and time considerations, quasi-industrial killing using Zyklon B would be impossible.[9]
“I testified in Canada for two reasons: First, the trial was an issue of freedom of speech and freedom of belief. As an American, one who supports the Bill of Rights, I believe that Mr. Zündel has the right to believe and say what he chooses. I have this right in the United States. Secondly, Mr. Zündel was not on trial for a misdemeanor. This was a major felony. He could have faced up to 25 years [sic] in prison for printing a document stating that there were no gas chambers at Auschwitz. I believe that any man, no matter what he had done, has a right to a fair trial, and the best possible defense that he can muster. I, unfortunately, was the only expert in the world who could provide that defense. There was no one else.”[3]
“[…] for any alleged human gas chamber found in a German World War II labour camp let us merely measure cyanide in the walls: if it’s not there, it didn’t happen.”
[8] Mattogno, Carlo, The Real Case for Auschwitz: Robert van Pelt’s Evidence from the Irving Trial Critically Reviewed, 2nd ed., Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2015; https://shop.codoh.com/book/the-real-case-for-auschwitz-en/389/.
Dr. Silberklang said that ‘in the popular mind, this subject is far less known than the Holocaust.’ The executions became, he said, ‘in a sense, invisible.’
“At the gate to Auschwitz was a group of German doctors. They were wearing white aprons spotted with blood. They resembled butchers, and that is exactly what they were. Only the meat was now human instead of animal. I watched their bloody hands and thought of the Jewish people they had tortured, killed, mutilated and experimented on. They had no feelings about us. We were just another group of Jews to be sorted. The young separated from the old, the well from the sick. Then another gas lever to be pulled for the unfortunate ones selected to die.” (p. 100)
Despite Jean-Claude Pressac’s dismissal of his “report”[156] the Auschwitz witness Pery Broad has returned to the prominent position in the pantheon of Auschwitz witnesses which he obtained during the Frankfurt Auschwitz trial, being relied on in an important recent collection of articles concerning claimed National Socialist gassings.[157] According to Michael Shermer, “Broad was never tortured, and he had nothing to gain and everything to lose by confessing.”[158] The files of the Tesch trial demonstrate that this was not the case. When Broad was transferred from one prison to another in preparation for the Tesch trial, he was accompanied by a note requesting that he receive preferential treatment: “Perry Broad has recently given much useful information. He should therefore receive as good treatment as is possible within ALTONA Prison.”[159] While this dynamic was not responsible for all German testimony on homicidal gassings, it was, as revisionists have contended and this note confirms, a structural factor.
As the German military situation in Latvia deteriorated, the Nazis first began to move Jewish forced laborers from factories to concentration camps and strengthened the guards at all camps. As the Red Army drove closer, they began evacuating the camps. At the end of July, 3,000 Hungarian Jewish women were evacuated, but there is no indication that they ever arrived in Hungary.
There is little doubt that Barnes sought to write history that was free from bias. While such objectivity may be ultimately unattainable, it was his goal nonetheless. He viewed patriotism and nationalism as but two of the barriers to truth and accuracy in history. Today one is well-advised that not only is adherence to these movements a barrier to truth in history, but adherence to firm anti-patriotic and anti-nationalism is likewise. Lipstadt, in but one example of her complete denial of self-awareness, charges that Barnes’s “incorrect” views about the Holocaust and Israel result from his Germanophilia, his revisionist approach to history and his anti-Semitism. Few consider, least of all Lipstadt, that inaccurate views about the Holocaust and Israel also result from Germanophobia, an anti-Revisionist approach to history, pro-Semitism and, particularly in her case, sources of funding.
Then there’s the testimony which is inexplicably absent. When Winston Churchill heard during the war that the Germans had killed 1.7 million people in gas chambers, he labelled it “the greatest and most horrible crime ever committed in the whole history of the world.”19 But in his voluminous memoir of the war years he fails to mention any gas chambers. Did “the greatest and most horrible crime” in human history slip his mind, even when the final tally was said to be four times greater than what he had heard? Or, with the liberation of the camps, did he realize the story was a myth, which he assumed would someday be exposed (silly boy!), and he didn’t want to be seen by history as having been duped. Nor does Eisenhower or De Gaulle mention gas chambers in their memoirs of the war. Even Elie Wiesel, the P.T. Barnum of Holocaust huckstering, makes no mention of gas chambers in his tone-setting Night, which chronicles his time spent in Auschwitz.
The Kraków Institute of Forensic Research also published results in 1994 that attempted to refute the Leuchter Report. The team from this forensic institute claims not to have understood how it was possible for Prussian Blue to have formed in walls as a result of their being exposed to hydrogen-cyanide gas. The researchers therefore excluded Prussian Blue and similar iron-cyanide compounds from their analyses, resulting in much-lower cyanide traces for the delousing chambers. Their analysis made it practically impossible to distinguish between rooms massively exposed to hydrogen cyanide and those which were not: all would have a cyanide residue of close to zero. The Kraków researchers concluded from their analysis that since the gas chambers and delousing facilities all had the same (negligible) concentration of cyanide residues, humans might indeed have been gassed in the putative gas chambers.
Non-Jewish American and British power elites also have a vested interest in promoting the Holocaust ideology. As the Holocaust historian Jeffrey Herf revealed in his study, The Jewish Enemy, the Holocaust ideology paints the American and British war effort during WWII in a good and ethical light, and thus "justifies" the entire Allied war effort against Germany.[94] In the titanic struggle against Germany, which sacrificed an enormous number of lives and cost a massive amount of resources, the British and American governments had to provide their people with “justifications” for such expenditures of human blood and treasure. Can one find a better “justification” than the story that the “monstrous Germans,” if they won the war, would attempt to exterminate all Jews, “inferior races,” and anyone else who stood in their way in “gas chambers?”
Kues continued with a second devastating assertion: ‘In 2001 and 2008 two teams of archaeologists, the first headed by the Polish professor Andrzej Kola, the second by the Israelis Isaac Gilead and Yoram Haimi and the Pole Wojciech Mazurek, went over the whole of Lager III, the “death camp” proper of Sobibor – corresponding to an area of less than four hectares – using probe drillings as well as numerous excavations without finding any trace whatever of the camp’s alleged homicidal gas chambers. As it is radically impossible, given the limited area and the time available, that these well-equipped teams of specialists would fail to locate any remain or trace, however slight, of the large concrete or brick building described by the self-styled eyewitnesses, only one conclusion is possible: the alleged homicidal gas chambers never existed.’
I contacted Heisenberg, who promptly invited me to come to Leipzig. There he made arrangements for me to register as a foreign student, and to get a part time job as a streetcar conductor. As such, I got a foreign laborers’ permit to stay in Germany. This arrangement worked during 1940, and I could attend classes regularly including Heisenberg’s lectures on relativity. In early 1941, I was picked up by the Gestapo, but later released, so far as I know, thanks to Heisenberg’s intervention. Authorities in my hometown had classified me as a “deutschfeindlicher Pole” (a Pole hostile to Germany), which normally would have implied a concentration camp and poor chances for survival. After this, I was no longer permitted to enter Institute premises, but Heisenberg made arrangements to see me privately, and to keep me supplied with all the materials needed to complete my thesis, which was eventually published without Institute address…[29]
The International Military Tribunal (IMT) at Nuremberg, the 12 secondary Nuremberg trials (NMT), and numerous other trials are repeatedly cited as proof of the Holocaust story. For example, Jewish American judge Norbert Ehrenfreund wrote:
Grubach pointed to serious credibility problems with the testimony, hostile to Demjanjuk, of Thomas Blatt: ‘The mere fact that Blatt was allegedly at Sobibor for six months and was not murdered is consistent with the Revisionist hypothesis that Sobibor was not an extermination centre for Jews, but rather a transit camp where Jews were deported further east.’ Blatt’s testimony is suspect for several reasons. For example, he stated that the special barrack where the women’s hair was cut off before entering the gas chambers was “just steps away” from them, whereas Sobibor historian Yitzhak Arad claims that the path (the ‘tube’) that led from the reception area for Jews (Lager II) to the extermination area (Lager III) was 150 metres long.’
The persons in the six other records are not to be found in the extant transport lists. This, however, does not necessarily mean that these individuals were not deported from France. It is possible that they went under other names at the time of their deportations, that their surnames were misspelled in the transport lists, or that they were last-minute additions to convoys and therefore do not appear in the extant copies of the transport lists. Such additions can be inferred from the fact that the numbers of deportees in the convoy lists in some cases differ slightly from the corresponding figures given in the telegrams sent to Auschwitz by the Jewish section of the French Gestapo. As Serge Klarsfeld explains,
When it comes to Holocaust survivors we almost always tend to think about Jews. It can’t be helped actually as it is only Jews who appear on the media. But Jews were not the only ones sent to concentration camps. There were others as well. Today we will have a look at the testimony of one of them: Russian POW Andrei Pogozhev and his book Escape from Auschwitz (Pen & Sword, 2007).
Like Richard Breitman, Nicholas Terry also alleges that the people murdered immediately after their arrival were not included in the lists of Abgänge because they were never registered, but were, instead, taken straight to the gas chambers.[26] This is, of course, entirely conceivable. But without a single document expressly ordering that inmates murdered in gas chambers directly after their arrival should not be reported, the assumption remains merely an ad hoc hypothesis.
But, personally, I have a dream: the day may come when, after a screening of Night and Fog (the classic propaganda film by Alain Resnais), imposed on all children in France, the teacher, instead of fostering the pupils’ tendency to unthinking indignation and rash judgment, will ask them to reflect a bit. He or she will teach them to gauge the distance there can be, in this film as in numerous other documentaries-documendaciaries, between image and commentary. These images we are shown here: what exactly do they signify? What do those abominations, those piles of corpses, that bulldozer mean? As for that concrete room with the “ceiling, furrowed by fingernails”: on the basis of what forensic investigation is it called a “gas chamber,” that is, a chemical slaughterhouse for human beings? Where have fingernails (of mere keratin) ever been known to “furrow” a concrete surface? Upon seeing so many corpses, whom is one to accuse? The loser? Or, quite simply, war and its inevitable train of horrors? Or again, in this particular case, all things considered, would it not be the ruthless war policy conducted by the winner?
Washington journalists Drew Pearson and Robert S. Allen reported in their nationally syndicated column that on March 16, 1939, President Roosevelt “sent a virtual ultimatum to Chamberlain” demanding that the British government strongly oppose Germany. Pearson and Allen reported that “the President warned that Britain could expect no more support, moral or material through the sale of airplanes, if the Munich policy continued.”[28]
It may well be that the trains approaching Auschwitz made other stops elsewhere as well where deportees were also taken off in order to be employed in local enterprises – including trains coming from other countries such as Slovakia, Poland, Belarus (Grodno) etc. And it may well be that some deportees did not finish their journey when arriving at Auschwitz, but that they left again – without having been registered – on other trains or by other means of transportation to be sent either to labor-deployment sites around Auschwitz or farther to the East, or to some ghetto, for instance.
In preparation for a sustained program of execution of selected Soviet prisoners of war (the so-called “Russenaktion”) in fall 1941 the camp acquired some “field crematoria” (very compact ovens which were reinforced by an iron frame and therefore transportable). These ovens used oil as combustible; the necessary temperatures could be reached fairly quickly, and in case of necessity the ovens could be operated around the clock. As can be deduced from their name, these ovens had been developed for use near the front or in areas contaminated by epidemics. Soviet post-war propaganda made great fuss about the mobility of these ovens; they were, so to speak, the equivalent of the “mobile gas chambers” – the “gas vans”.
On the other hand, while it is true that I perforce based my findings on the manpower of the male Gypsy camp, I did not neglect the women’s camp at all. In fact, I mentioned the Gypsy women’s transport which departed Birkenau on 1 August 1944 and reached Ravensbrück concentration camp on 3 August. The number of camp inmates is unknown, and it is not even known whether there were other Gypsy transports to other camps. But there is nothing to indicate that all 3,422 of the Gypsy women in the female section of BIIe Camp were not transported to other camps on 31 July 1944. Upon what documentary basis can one assert that all or any of them were gassed?
Krakow is a beautiful city in early summer, the stand-out among southern Polish cities. Miraculously, the old city center survived both world wars unscathed. The huge central square is a sight to behold, and with no less than three major universities, Krakow bristles with youthful energy. Coming down by train from Warsaw, I was able to arrange a two-night stay before continuing on my way to Vienna. As with most major European cities, one quickly learns of the “must-see” sites: St. Mary’s Basilica, Wawel Castle, the salt mines, and of course, Auschwitz.
Thus the final decision was Molotov’s. The reason why the Sachenhausen report was not published was probably the following: At that time (October 1945) most members of the camp staff were still in British custody, and the British were still planning to hold their own Sachsenhausen trial, possibly together with the Soviets[83]. The Soviet government could thus not know what the arrested SS men, from Commandant Kaindl to the lower ranks, had testified – or would still testify – in British custody and how the British would use their testimony. For this reason the traditional NKVD method to have the results of their own ”investigations“ confirmed by the confessions of the accused could not be used – not yet.
Is David Irving familiar with these eyewitness reports? If he has not read the revisionist literature, it is unlikely that he knows them as they are never mentioned in the official literature. In his “standard work” about the Reinhardt camps, Yitzhak Arad quotes an excerpt from the report of the resistance movement of the Warsaw Ghetto, but shamelessly distorts the text by replacing the embarrassing “steam chambers” by “gas chambers”![37]
Crowell’s title is quite apt.  For Crowell, like the legendary detective, searches for credible evidence of the gas chamber story.  What the detective finds, however, is a string of clues that point to a huge mass delusion, as evidence suggests that the “scant evidence” is of something other than a mass extermination campaign.  The title also suggests the origin of the gas chamber story lying not in the schemes of the Nazi leadership but rather in the popular culture and fears of a generation.
[12] Gutman, Israel (ed), Encyclopedia of the Holocaust, 4 vols., New York: Macmillan, 1990, article “Aktion 1005,” Vol. 1, p. 11.
As to the question what we are learning in school when history is taught, I can answer simply with the term National Socialism. Nothing else seems to matter. Everything about the Second World War really gets on my nerves. It is always the same. They start with Hitler, then we talk about Anne Frank, and on the day when we should take a walk in the forest, we have to go and see the movie Schindler’s List instead. And this continues when we go to church where in place of learning our religious confirmation instructions we are taught more about the “Holocaust.” The final result is obviously that we just don’t want to hear about that stuff anymore. It drains us emotionally, and eventually leads to callousness.[25]
It is hard to see how The Age can justify such barefaced misrepresentation. Its behavior is a stark reminder of the fact that both the term “The Holocaust” and the term “Holocaust denial” are loaded and not neutral or impartial. Ordinary people who have never studied the writings of Holocaust revisionists genuinely imagine that they do deny that there were Nazi concentration camps in which many Jews and others were imprisoned. The revisionists do not, of course. But the blanket term “The Holocaust” has an ambiguity which suggests it. If The Age had published a picture of a homicidal gas chamber, it would have been a different matter; but perhaps it did not because none are available, for the simple reason that the gassing in Nazi camps really was directed against vermin to disinfect clothing and minimize infection by typhus or cholera, and not against human beings.
In the swamp that was Birkenau, it would be impossible to dig a pit five meters deep.[2] Also the heat would have been so intense (he speaks of flames five to six meters high) that approaching the fire would have caused severe burnings if not death. Finally, even more ridiculous is the claim about the accumulated fat. The same fat that was allegedly enough to keep the cremation going in the cremation furnaces did not burn off in the pits but rather gathered to such a degree that it had to be cleared out?
“According to Czech’s Auschwitz Chronicle, a Jewish transport from Holland arrived on October 18, 1942, with 1,710 deportees, of whom only 116 women were registered, and the remaining 1,594 persons are said to have been gassed. The ‘special operation’ mentioned by [Johann] Kremer allegedly refers to this claimed gassing.
While the question of the fate of the transshipped deportees is shrouded in obscurity – and will likely remain so until large-scale critical research is permitted and conducted – it hardly constitutes the “end game” of revisionism our opponents portray it as. On the other hand, the argument that the revisionists’ present inability to thoroughly account for the fate of this group of deportees somehow invalidates the revisionist conclusion regarding the mass gassing allegations is a gross fallacy of logic based on a reversal of the hierarchy of evidence. The fate of the 1944 deportees remains to be determined. What can safely be excluded, however, based on the technical and documentary evidence, is the official version according to which these Jews were murdered in homicidal gas chambers.
Concerning wall exposure to the elements, Desjardins, after carefully retracing the steps of Leuchter on a 1996 visit to Auschwitz and watching the film that had been made of Leuchter’s sampling, commented:
There are good reasons for even the most hardcore believer in the Holocaust to be very skeptical of the Sobibor extermination story. As the Scottish philosopher David Hume pointed out centuries ago, the veracity of human testimony is undermined when “the witnesses contradict each other; when they are but few, or of a doubtful character; when they have an interest in what they affirm; when they deliver their testimony with hesitation, or on the contrary, with too violent asseverations, etc.”[118]
Checking as far as possible the records of the camps where Goertz had been confined, Bacque found that it had been one of a group of three in a system of 1,600, all equally bad, according to ICRC reports in the French army archives at Vincennes, Paris. Soon they came upon the first hard evidence of mass deaths in U.S.-controlled camps. This evidence was found in army reports under the bland heading Other Losses. The terrible significance of this term was soon explained to Bacque and me by Colonel Philip S. Lauben, a former chief of the Germany Affairs Branch of SHAEF.
But precisely for this reason, the historians who present him as "The Truth about the Gas Chambers" and "A Unique Testimony" can have no excuse and no justification - not even their atavistic ineptitude.[279]
Das US-Holocaust-Museum nutzt die Einzahl “die”, um zu unterstellen, dass diese beiden Türen dieselbe Tür derselben Menschengaskammer waren, die als Duschraum getarnt war.
Edward then introduced to us—with Lech patiently translating—a large scale model of the extermination camp (Photo 3). Edward explained the standard extermination process: the arriving train cars, the separation by sexes, the “tube” pathway to the gas chambers, and then the gassing itself—with diesel engine exhaust. Not being your typical ignorant tourist, I asked if diesel exhaust had enough carbon monoxide to efficiently kill masses of people. Edward’s answer: the Germans used “dirty fuel”! This was a new one for me; I am unaware of any witness or perpetrator describing the deliberate use of contaminated diesel fuel in order to increase CO content, nor do I know if it would even work. But it was an interesting response. Evidently he knew that ordinary diesel exhaust cannot kill masses of people, so the story had to be modified. But who am I to challenge the director of the Treblinka museum himself?
Summarizing briefly, for Venezia, the new prisoners of the "Sonderkommando" were first taken to Crematorium II or Crematorium III, where they saw bodies from a window, but were not permitted to enter the gas chamber; Y. Gabai, by contrast, states that on 15 May 1944 they were taken to Crematorium II, where they saw the bodies of 2,500 Hungarian Jews in the gas chamber from a transport having arrived in Birkenau only two days after. The witness says nothing about working at "Bunker 2". J. Sackar asserts that the prisoners were directed into the courtyard outside crematorium V, where there was a pit which was called "Bunker". S. Chasan makes similar statements. L. Cohen, by contrast, who was not even aware of the designation "Bunker", defines the supposed extermination installation simply as a "a building". He introduces into his narrative "carts" to carry the bodies to the pits, undoubtedly more comfortable than the system described by Venezia:
Both works are deeply analytical; the reading of either one by a person who retains a grasp upon common sense must leave the reader thoroughly disabused of the hateful legacy of the Holocaust mythology. A reading of both would leave the same person equipped (so long as memory served) to dispose of any assertion of the mainstream narrative from at least two directions, each quite decisive without the other. Analogizing such knowledge with eyesight, the result might be dubbed “binocular knowledge” of the subject of the experiences of the Jews of Europe during World War II.
As Sington's column proceeded deeper into the foul recesses of the main prisoner compound, he was immediately struck by the overpowering smell of ordure, which he described as being similar to the smell in a "monkey house."[17] A bluish mist had formed and was hovering above the ground and between the buildings, which lent an eerie aspect to the incredible scene unfolding before his stunned eyes. In the midst of this surreal atmosphere, "simian" (sic) throngs of inmates soon began forming throughout the camp, hobbling about lethargically in the customary striped uniform of a concentration camp inmate. A weak cry of jubilation arose from hundreds of lips as the loudspeakers announced that the day of liberation had at last arrived. As Sington surveyed the incredible scene unfolding before his eyes, one man stood out amidst the multitude—he was standing in front of the gateway to one of the compounds dressed in a regular blue suit! The man was of imposing stature and his flaming red hair stood out dramatically amidst the shaven heads which were ubiquitous throughout the camp. Sington, struck by this singularly odd apparition, approached the man and shook hands with him. The man introduced himself as a Dutchman who had once fought with the "International Brigade" in Spain, and was now a self-described icon within the concentration camp system.
IBM and the Holocaust provides no credible proof that Germany murdered 6 million Jews. Black, whose Jewish Polish parents both survived the so-called Holocaust (p. 16), fails to document in his book a German program of genocide against European Jewry. Like most other Holocaust historians, Black merely assumes the “Holocaust” happened without credibly documenting its existence. Instead, we are supposed to assume that the so-called Holocaust happened, and that IBM should be demonized merely for conducting normal business operations with the Third Reich.
At Nuremberg and the war-crimes trials that followed it, for example, while quibbling about what really happened wasn’t held a crime in itself, it was specifically and rigorously prohibited to contest any such issue in mounting a defense against charges made by those tribunals, corpus delicti be damned. Defendants (they were called “accuseds,” never defendants), denied any way of ever suggesting that any alleged crime had not been committed, were limited to claiming personal noninvolvement—usually by accusing some other person(s)—or claiming extenuating circumstances to support an abject appeal for mercy from the tribunal, which ultimately passed dozens of death sentences, and even more sentences of life imprisonment. Thus did censorship of “Holocaust denial” have its beginnings.
After Spingola made a reference to the “Holocaust” and its use by Jewish interests, Steyn remarks that “Goodson appeared to agree.”
This is confirmed by a letter from Dr. Mengele, Lagerarzt of the Gypsy camp, to the Zentralbauleitung of Auschwitz dated 23 March 1944, which reads:
The Allied campaign to make Germans feel guilty concerning the so-called Holocaust has been highly successful. German guilt is so powerful that it has caused the German government to make enormous reparations and offer humble apologies to the Allies. Millions of German expellees have paid reparations to survivors of the German concentration camps even though these German expellees had their land and personal possessions stolen from them.
Hello everyone. Last year Professor Deborah Lipstadt gave a lecture about Holocaust denial at the University of Oxford. There she stated:
But first, let’s establish the basic facts of the camp. The Auschwitz complex consisted of three distinct areas: (1) Auschwitz-I, also called the Stammlager or main camp; (2) Auschwitz-II, better known as Birkenau; (3) Auschwitz-III, also called Monowitz, which was a labor camp and chemical processing facility. Birkenau was only one mile from the main camp; Monowitz, about three miles. Of the 1 million presumed Auschwitz deaths, roughly 98% occurred at Birkenau, with the remaining 2% at the main camp.[62]
In June of 2013, the media was buzzing with the announcement of the discovery of the diary of Alfred Rosenberg by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Homeland Security Investigations (HSI). Initial reports announced that the diary “could offer new insights into the Holocaust.”[1] News conferences were held with officials from the Department of Homeland Security, the Justice Department and the US Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM). In a Web posting, the USHMM declared:
One Evelyn Creeton wrote that “hate speech laws are the laws that now powerful minority groups use to silence their opponents but would never agree to apply to themselves. They know that postmodern judges will use positive discrimination to protect people and opinions they agree with, even if a statute does not authorize such unequal treatment and international law forbids it.”[62] Canadian Mark Steyn, writing in Spectator Australia, commented: “I’m opposed to the notion of official ideology….. the more topics you rule out of discussion – immigration, Islam, ‘gender fluidity’ – the more you delegitimize the political system….. where we’re headed [is] a world where real, primal, universal rights – like freedom of expression – come a distant second to the new tribalism of identity group rights….. Universities are no longer institutions of inquiry.”[63] Political scientist Jennifer Oriel produced a profoundly damning analysis of the Racial Discrimination Act: “The open society dream of the West was based on the reign of reason over theocracy and the liberation of citizens from state dogma. Both precepts of open society are reversed in laws to censor speech that offends.” She warned against “a gradual insinuation of ideology into the realm of Western jurisprudence” and its “reintroduction of state censorship under the guise of racial discrimination law.” She explained that “the modern architect of civil accord by state censorship” was former Canadian prime minister Pierre Trudeau, “an ardent admirer of Mao Zedong’s approach to multiculturalism.” Oriel saw the Brandis reform proposal as seeking “to raise the evidentiary standard of justice from feelings of offense and group opinion to hard evidence and truth.” It was now encountering a backlash “from those whose public status depends on manufacturing the illusion that personal perception and mob opinion constitute fact.” In reality the proposal “extends the right of free speech to all Australians rather than reserving it for an elite class who can claim their words are especially academic, scientific or artistic.”[64]
"Nothing that Dante could conceive of the Inferno we term Hell can exceed in agony the ghastly scenes at Belsen concentration camp, near Bremen, which was taken over on April 17 by General Dempsey's Second Army. This huge camp, which had contained some 60,000 civilians, was little more than a mass of dead and dying, mainly from starvation, typhus, and typhoid. The camp was declared a neutral area before we arrived and the Allied military authorities stood by to reach it at the earliest possible moment, for it was known that the living had been without food or water for over six days. It was found to be littered with dead and dying, and huts capable of housing only thirty persons were in many cases crowded with as many as 500. It was impossible to estimate the number of dead among them; while frequently being too weak to move, they had been suffocated, while those still living were also too feeble to remove them."[5]
Remark: If there cannot be found in the work of an author proposing to refute the case for the gas chambers either any rashness, negligence, deliberate oversight, lies or “falsification”, that is proof that the work in question is the product of a serious, careful, conscientious, upright and genuine researcher, proof good enough to ensure the legal right to maintain publicly, as he himself does, that the said gas chambers are but a myth.
[13] Pressac, Jean-Claude, Auschwitz: Technique and Operation of the Gas Chambers, New York: Beate Klarsfeld Foundation, 1989, p. 264.
The history of the Holocaust, within the larger context of the Second World War has the unusual and unique facility of periodically transforming itself, albeit in a manner which serves perceived Jewish collective interests. This is important because the Holocaust is unlike any other conflict, war, event, or cause in history in that it remains deeply rooted in the public consciousness. In an American context and very broadly summarized, it has taken the following forms:
The pressure began to be applied against Canaris and the Abwehr. The Allies seemed to back-pedal on chances of an agreement, and the Gestapo began to uncover evidence of Canaris’s links with the Allies through the Vatican. When Hitler accused Canaris of unacceptable performance in carrying out the tasks of his position, Canaris calmly replied that this was “hardly surprising given that Germany was losing the war.” This was not what Hitler had wanted to hear and, after firing Canaris, Hitler dissolved the Abwehr on February 18, 1944. A unified German intelligence service under Heinrich Himmler and Ernst Kaltenbrunner replaced the Abwehr.[35]
Dalton gets it. Instead of repeating the orthodox garbage about "never forget" and "never again," he reminds us that, if we're going to canonize a historical event in state and popular culture, and if we're going to let this historical event dominate our foreign policy rhetoric and guide the actions of our empire, we better keep an open mind about what really happened. By reminding us of the ubiquity of the Holocaust in our lives—and in the lives of the other 6 billion people residing under the jurisdiction of the United Nations—Dalton points out that, despite his earlier claims about needing to set the record straight for mere historical truth, the Holocaust really needs to be revised because of the tyranny it imposes upon the world's publics. Because of the Holocaust campaign, the old protest refrain we hear so often is as true for us as it is for anyone: "We are all Palestinians now." We have all been thoroughly colonized by the Holocaust, and to decolonize, we must first revise. As Dalton himself points out, by indicting one of the central myths of the postwar liberal order, "Revisionists challenge not only orthodoxy; they challenge the power of the State."
The famous 1988 Leuchter Report acknowledged that the current state of the building is not original, “since one wall had been removed,” and therefore did not make any statement about the door currently visible.[15] However, at the end of a 1994 article, revisionist Robert Faurisson, ghostwriter of the Leuchter Report, added two images comparing the massive steel door of a US execution gas chamber with the flimsy wooden door with window pane which has been visible in the old crematorium since the wall from the morgue to the washroom had been knocked down in 1947. The caption to the image showing that door reads:[16]
But one Jewish researcher remained in the running, the one whom I, for my part, called “the last of the Jewish Mohicans”; that was my sobriquet for Robert Jan van Pelt. However, once again, the matter was to end with a kind of capitulation. As will be seen below, on December 27, 2009 the fellow wound up his lengthy research work with the following observation: as concerns Auschwitz, for virtually everything “we know” about that camp (capital of the “Holocaust,” visited by millions of believers) there is simply no evidence to be found...there at Auschwitz; it would be better to stop spending so much money trying to preserve the place; nature should take it back! This researcher’s embarrassment is indeed understandable: he would prefer to see the pure fabrications, like the crematorium at Auschwitz I, disappear (“Everything in it is false,” as French historian Eric Conan eventually found in 1995: L’Express, January 19-25, 1995, p. 68; on this subject see point no. 16 at http://robertfaurisson.blogspot.com/2006/12/victories-of-revisionism.html and the article at http://www.ihr.org/jhr/v15/v15n1p23_Weber.html).
The above statements refer to the alleged old gas chambers. Regarding the new gas chambers, which Wiernik supposedly helped to construct, we read:
19 August. A letter from Dr. Martin Broszat of the Institute for Contemporary History (Institut für Zeitgeschichte) appears in the Hamburg weekly Die Zeit, stating that "Neither in Dachau nor in Bergen-Belsen nor in Buchenwald were Jews or other prisoners gassed" and that "The mass extermination of the Jews by gassing began in 1941-1942 and occurred exclusively in a few facilities selected and equipped with appropriate technical installations, above all in the occupied Polish territory (but at no place in the Old Reich)".[7]
Lipstadt’s denial in regard to group persecution other than that involving Jews is of course nonsense: Stalin targeted the kulaks as a class, and many other groups for centuries have been targeted for class, religious and ethnic reasons, such as the 40,000 Cossacks who were repatriated from Austria back to the USSR and to death with the connivance of the Allies after the war. Since the deportees included women and children, and therefore non-combatants, the Cossacks were presumably being deported as an ethnic group. [33] Hence, in making the ‘Holocaust’ a unique experience in history, Lipstadt’s methodology seems to include simply denying the existence of any non-Jewish genocidal experience—itself a denial of surpassing scope and depth. For example, the genocidal character of the Morgenthau Plan for the starvation of the German population, she claims, ‘was never put into effect’.[34] ‘Furthermore’, she states, ‘there was no starvation program in Germany, and the rations Germans received far surpassed anything concentration camp inmates were ever given by the Nazis’.[35] James Bacque, who would certainly be regarded as a ‘Holocaust relativist, documents a different view.[36]
In 1941, the first transports of Jews came from SLOVAKIA and the region of Upper Silesia,[.] Those unable to work were gassed in the vestibule of the crematorium on orders of Himmler, which he gave me personally. In June 1941 [p. 2] I was summoned to Himmler in Berlin where he basically told me the following. The Fuehrer has ordered the solution of the Jewish question in Europe. Several so-called extermination camps already exist in the Government General (BELZEK near RAVA RUSKA eastern Poland, TREBLINKA near MALINA [Malkinia] on the River BUG, and WOLZEK near LUBLIN). These camps were under the authority of the Einsatzkommandos [deployment units] of the SECURITY POLICE headed by high SIPO officers and guard details. These camps had a low capacity, however, and could not be expanded.
“They [meaning the revisionists] attempt to project the appearance of being committed to the very values that they in truth adamantly oppose: reason, critical rules of evidence, and historical distinction.” – unquote
Auschwitz, on the other hand, was put out of business by the Red Army in January 1945 and was occupied by that force until 1989, only after which it became the center of a booming tourist trade for people eager to visit the site of so much suffering and (German) evil that caused it all. In fairness, the tourist appeal of Oak Ridge today should be augmented by the combined tourist appeals of Nagasaki and Hiroshima (so far) as the loci of the suffering and deaths produced in the verdant mountains of eastern Tennessee.
It is an established historical fact that in autumn 1941 a number of Soviet prisoners of war were shot at Sachsenhausen and in some other camps (“Russenaktion”). In all likelihood the victims were political commissars (polititcheskie rukovoditeli, politruks) who were usually called “Kommissare” by the Germans. Each unit of the Red Army had its politruk who acted as a watchdog for the commanding military officer. The National Socialist leadership (Hitler, Himmler, Heydrich) regarded these men as the driving force behind the fanatical Bolshevist resistance and denied them the status of combatants. This gave rise to the highly controversial “Kommissarbefehl” according to which all captured commissars were to be shot on the spot. But the commissars could not easily be identified, their only distinguishing mark being a red star on their sleeve which could easily be removed. This allowed many captured commissars to hide among the masses of Soviet POWs. Following an order by Heydrich, the Soviet prisoners of war in the camps were screened; those who turned out to be commissars were to be “sorted out” whereupon they were transferred to the nearest concentration camp and shot there.
Before we examine the non-Jewish groups that promote the Holocaust mythology, it is important to note that all of them were or still are subject to Jewish pressure and influence. The world Jewish community has played a decisive role in the history of the twentieth and first decade of the twenty first centuries, and all of the governments and non-Jewish factions we are about to discuss have felt their enormous impact. Whether it be the post WWII German governments, the former Communist regimes of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, the governments of Britain, Poland and the United States, left-wing liberal or neo-conservative groups of the West, all of them have been subject to Jewish influence.[31]
That Lipstadt named best-selling British historian David Irving in her screed and called him “one of the most dangerous spokespersons for Holocaust denial” was a charge that would need to be backed up, especially since David Irving had never written a book on the subject of the Holocaust and unlike many of Lipstadt’s other targets, Irving was neither dead nor without the means to launch a counter-attack.
This book is mainly a rehash of Arad, Sereny, Chrostowski, Steiner and Rückerl (as well as material from the H.E.A.R.T., Holocaust Research Project and ARC websites, from which most of the illustrations are taken), with most of the usual quotes from Wiernik et al. It follows from this that the book is mostly for those seeking exhaustive coverage; if you are buying only one book this summer, save the money for something better...
I should mention also that it is largely due to Crowell’s better known socio-cultural study of mass gassing claims that I am inclined to view particular gassing claims from a default perspective of skepticism. World War II mass-gassing stories are so bedeviled with conflation, confabulation, and culture-bound confusion – and for delineable reasons – that it is well, in the absence of clear-cut physical evidence, to weigh sociogenic explanations against the kind of literal interpretation that holds sway in the standard historiography.
I will not discuss here in detail the so-called "gas vans", as this aspect of the holocaust has been critically examined at length elsewhere.[47] I will here confine myself to pointing out a few oddities and contradictions pertaining to the alleged use of "gas vans" at Maly Trostenets.
Any modification after the construction of the crematorium appears rather improbable, if not illogical.
The use of false witnesses has been acknowledged by Johann Neuhäusler, who was an ecclesiastical resistance fighter interned in two German concentration camps from 1941 to 1945. Neuhäusler wrote that in some of the American-run trials “many of the witnesses, perhaps 90%, were paid professional witnesses with criminal records ranging from robbery to homosexuality.”[32]
It is rare for Le Monde to be compelled to return to a work upon which a review has already been published in its columns. The occasion presents itself today, by reason of the growing controversy, now several weeks old, regarding a book, Porteur de mémoires [Bearer of Memories] published by Michel Lafon, 2007, [Title has been published as Holocaust by Bullets in its English edition –Ed.] and its author, Father Patrick Desbois.
Adm. Theobald’s conclusions are reinforced by Adm. William F. Halsey, who was one of three senior commanders of the Pacific Fleet serving under Adm. Kimmel. Adm. Halsey stated: “…I did not know then of any of the pertinent ‘Magic Messages.’ All our intelligence pointed to an attack by Japan against the Philippines or the southern areas in Malaya or the Dutch East Indies. While Pearl Harbor was considered and not ruled out, the mass of evidence made available to us pointed in another direction. Had we known of Japan’s minute and continued interest in the exact location and movement of our ships in Pearl Harbor, as indicated in the ‘Magic Messages,’ it is only logical that we would have concentrated our thought on meeting the practical certainty of an attack on Pearl Harbor.”[13]
[21] Mattogno, Carlo, “Dr. Mengele’s ‘Medical Experiments’ on Twins in the Birkenau Gypsy Camp,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 5, No. 4, 2013 https://inconvenienthistory.com/5/4/3223.
Not only is there no evidence that Zentai was a Nazi, but it is also clear that he did not hide after leaving Hungary and entered both Germany and later Australia by fully legal means. He then lived in Australia under his own name for more than fifty years.[90] That looks like the behaviour of an innocent man. Moreover, the Zentai family have produced correspondence that shows that the Hungarian Government knew where Zentai was living in Perth for several decades after his arrival in Australia. No extradition requests were made during this time.[91] This implies, though it does not prove, that Zentai had a clean record in Hungary’s eyes during that period.
The above examples go to show that the ESC in general and Burdenko in particular had a habit of engaging in fraud on a massive scale and were prone to wild exaggerations. It may further be mentioned that Burdenko also was one of the authors of the Soviet Auschwitz report, in which the number of victims of this "death camp" was stated as 4 million.[11]
In 1985 Raul Hilberg, Number One orthodox historian and author of the Number One “Holocaust” reference work, The Destruction of the European Jews, radically changed position in the second “and definitive” edition of his book. Three years earlier, in an interview with French journalist Guy Sitbon, R. Hilberg had had occasion to state: “I will say that, in a certain way, Faurisson and others, without wanting to, have done us a favor. They have raised questions that have the effect of engaging historians in new research. They have obliged us once again to collect information, to re-examine documents and to go further into the comprehension of what took place” (Le Nouvel Observateur, July 3-9, 1982, p. 71). Perhaps under the influence of “Faurisson and others,” he there completely relinquished the explanation given in his first edition, that of 1961, according to which the destruction of the Jews had been expressly ordered and conducted by Hitler. If his new explanation is to be believed, the destruction of European Jewry was decided and carried out without any order, “basic plan”, centralization, instructions or budget but all thanks to “an incredible meeting of minds, a consensus-mind reading by a far-flung bureaucracy,” that is, the German bureaucracy. The bureaucrats in question “created an atmosphere in which the formal, written word could gradually be abandoned as a modus operandi”. They indulged in “concealed operations” by means of “written directives not published,” “broad authorizations to subordinates, not published,” “oral directives and authorizations,” “basic understandings of officials resulting in decisions not requiring orders or explanations.” He concluded: “In the final analysis, the destruction of the Jews was not so much a product of laws and commands, as it was a matter of spirit, of shared comprehension, of consonance and synchronization,” and, rounding out this conclusion, he went so far as to write that “no special agency was created and no special budget was devised to destroy the Jews of Europe. Each organization was to play a specific role in the process, and each was to find the means to carry out its task” (The Destruction of the European Jews, New York, Holmes and Meier, 1985 edition in three volumes, p. 53-55, 62; the emphasis on certain words (in italics) is my own. See also the interview with Hilberg published in Le Monde des livres, October 20, 2006, p. 12).
According to my estimation I am able to supply very important information that means fresh evidence to commit war criminals for trial. The war crime I am referring to concerns an official discussion which took place between a businessman of an IG Farben sister concern with leading men of the OKW [Army High Command], about the application of the hydrocyanic acid process to kill human beings. Further the training of SS men to apply this process.
Martin Niemöller was arrested on July 1, 1937 and brought to the secret-police headquarters in Alexanderplatz. He was not interrogated, but brought to Moabit Prison, where he occupied a small cell. Niemöller had to wait more than seven months while evidence was gathered to prosecute him at his trial.[12]
The historian unfortunately devotes the last three pages of his opus to a pious disquisition on the uses of historical misrepresentation to serve the purposes of propaganda. On Page 376, for example, we read that “Distorted facts are far more dangerous than actual ones.” Our instructor proceeds to wag an accusing finger in the direction of the usual right-wing extremist/nationalist culprits, even going so far on Page 377 as to tar erstwhile victims such as “the German expellees try to present the history of their own suffering as equivalent to the suffering of the Jews”. Good one there, Dr. Lowe—the fate of David Irving, Norman Davies, and many other historians and journalists should not befall you after this. Of course, while attacking the practitioners of historical exploitation, he nowhere hints at the elephant in the room he has erected: those exploiting that very Holocaust in whose defense he exerts himself so strenuously.
“Even the simple qualification, which is self-attributed, of being an ‘expert specializing in the design and manufacture of devices for capital punishment,’ above all by means of gas chambers, belongs into the realm of fairy tales.”
The Holocaust story is described by many Jewish leaders as a uniquely evil event. An example of this view was expressed by Abraham H. Foxman when he was the National Director of the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith:[30]
The parties signed the Munich Agreement in the early hours of September 30, 1938. Hitler got substantially everything he wanted. The territories populated by the Sudeten Germans had become a part of Germany. Chamberlain and Hitler signed a joint declaration that the Munich Agreement and the Anglo-German naval accord symbolized “the desire of our two peoples never to go to war with each other again.” Chamberlain told the cheering crowd in London that welcomed him home, “I believe it is peace in our time.”[49] War had been averted in Europe. The chains of Versailles had been completely broken.
She says that the Trump Administration had committed “softcore Holocaust denial” with its “de-Judaization of the Holocaust.” (Note that “de-Judaization of the Holocaust” is “denial,” but de-Gypsyization and de-Polonization are not.) She then gives a paradoxical definition of “softcore denial”:
Later in the movie however, Lipstadt demands once again that “Holocaust survivors” testify, and this time a more-candid Julius, albeit in rapid-fire dialogue, tells her that he can’t call on them because, “The survivors were torn apart at the Zündel trial.”
The Great Holocaust Trial is available for $19.95 plus $3.50 shipping in the U.S. Shipping to Canada is $8. Shipping overseas is $10.
Jews often used torture to help convict the German defendants at Nuremberg and other postwar trials. A leading example of the use of torture to obtain evidence is the confession of Rudolf Höss, the former commandant at Auschwitz. Höss’s testimony at the IMT was the most important evidence presented of a German extermination program. Höss said that more than 2.5 million people were exterminated in the Auschwitz gas chambers, and that another 500,000 inmates had died there of other causes.[16] No defender of the Holocaust story today accepts these inflated figures, and other key portions of Höss’s testimony at the IMT are widely acknowledged to be untrue.
As opposed to the growing tide of historical revisionism, orthodox or “exterminationist” historians now suggest that the homicidal gassing of Jews began in February and March 1942, and maintain that the ﬁrst homicidal gassings of Soviet and Polish prisoners in Auschwitz took place in August-September 1941.[43] Yet SOE were putting out a rumor or “sib” about the gassing of “incurables” (i.e. euthanasia by gas chamber) in December 1940, and an extension of this rumor to encompass gassing of severely wounded soldiers was already current by the summer of 1941 – i.e. before the very ﬁrst alleged gassings of prisoners at Auschwitz.
According to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), France had 680,000 former German soldiers slaving for her in August 1946. Of this number, 475,000 had been captured by the United States and turned over to the French for forced labor. After 320,000 German prisoners had been delivered, the French returned 2,474 of them to the United States because they were severely malnourished and unfit for work. Associated Press photographer Henry Griffin, who had taken pictures of the corpses piled in Buchenwald and Dachau, said of these returned Germans: “The only difference I can see between these men and those corpses is that here they are still breathing.”[23]
The genocide of European Jewry by National Socialist Germany is considered by many to be the most thoroughly documented event in human history. Tens of thousands of books, magazine, and newspaper articles have been written and numerous criminal trials have been conducted to document the mass extermination of European Jewry. The crimes of Germany against Jews are considered to be so uniquely evil that the term “the Holocaust” has been invented to describe the alleged genocide of European Jewry. I have been asked the questions: “Why was the Holocaust story invented? Who benefits from this falsification of history?” This article will answer these questions.
[W]e should abandon the notion that it is historically meaningful to try to filter the wealth of available historical material and pick out a single decision that led to the 'Final Solution'. This approach is pointless not only because the debate on the 'Final Solution' has evidently reached the limits of what is provable, but above all because any attempt to identify a decision taken at a single moment in time runs counter to the extreme complexity of the processes that were in fact taking place. (p. 6)
Jewish influence on the American political system would also play a role in determining how German government officials would behave in regard to Jewish interests. Since the United States government had the final control of Germany, Jewish groups could influence American policy toward Germany by way of the United States government. Indeed, President Eisenhowers’s Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles, stated point blank in the context of the 1956 Suez crisis: “We cannot have all of our policies made in Jerusalem […] I am aware how almost impossible it is in this country to carry out a foreign policy not approved by the Jews. Marshall and Forrestal learned that. I am going to try to have one.”[46] (Let me give just one small piece of evidence in support of Dulles’s statement. In 1952, eighty percent of the Democratic Party presidential campaign funds came from Jewish sources.[47])
—Peter Novick, The Holocaust in American Life, p. 223
The mass extermination of the Jews is thought to have developed at Auschwitz later, through a subsequent phase which is no less unsustainable: the gassing of the Jews unable to work who had worked in the labor camps of the Schmelt organization in Upper Silesia[84]. The first transport of these inmates, according to the Kalendarium of Danuta Czech, should have arrived at the camp on 15 February 1942, but as Schulte correctly observes,
British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain told the cheering crowd in London that welcomed him home after signing the Munich Agreement, “I believe it is peace in our time.”[2] Unfortunately, the mutual confidence that was supposed to arise among the four great European powers quickly unraveled. This article discusses the events that led to Germany’s assuming the protection of Czechoslovakia, and their exploitation by British high officials to promote war against Germany.
“In two cases I saw how other detainees had to remove the gassed and dead detainees from the gas chamber. The dead were really blue and some of them had to be torn from one another by the detainee command, as many detainees were intertwined with one another”. (p. 225)
In order to find out we will have a look at several Nazi testimonies from the International Military Tribunal (IMT) and Nuremberg Military Tribunal (NMT) transcripts regarding the alleged attempt to exterminate the Jews – testimonies you will never find in history books.
In regard to the Mauthausen trial, numerous prosecution witnesses used hearsay evidence to convict the defendants. The court consistently rejected attempts by defense counsel to have such testimony stricken from the record. Tomaz Jardim writes:
The above seems to be largely corroborated by a few German wartime documents confirming that this revolt took place, indeed, including a garrison order naming the three SS casualties,[4] and by an escape report of the Gestapo published by the Auschwitz Museum. The hour is exactly the same mentioned by Sevillias, the only difference being the date (September 7),[5] but that seems to be an error of the document, as other German wartime documents put that event firmly on October 7, so for instance the just-mentioned garrison order and a telegram sent by the Auschwitz camp headquarters to the local Gestapo office saying:[6]
An online database[179] based on the Dutch transport lists a Helena Bromet-Root, born 3 October 1912 in Amsterdam, as murdered in Auschwitz on 23 July 1942. There is also an Esther Cohen-Zion, born 26 June 1871 in Eibergen, listed as murdered in Auschwitz on 17 September 1942. We may recall here Hilde Sherman-Zander's testimony (3.3.2.) according to which one or more convoys of Dutch Jews arrived in Riga in the summer of 1942.
Potentially decisive evidence could exist in the mass graves, which allegedly held something like 250,000 bodies before they were exhumed and burned. We know where the graves are; in fact, there is a ‘victim memorial’ there today. Montague discusses the graves in detail, and supplies a helpful map. Today we see evidence of three long (circa 200m), thin (8m) disturbances, one smaller disturbance of some 60m in length, and about a dozen isolated pits. In total, these could indeed have held some quarter-million bodies.
The chairman in response suggested that there was no problem “under this bill in saying that the Holocaust did not occur” and likened such a claim to stating that Dresden was not bombed in World War Two, that the Kokoda Trail did not exist, that there was no Burma Railway built by the Japanese with prisoner of war labor, or that William III was a homosexual [that is, a series of obvious absurdities]. In response I said:
We have received enormous support from various organizations, particularly the Foundation for the Memory of the Shoah, and from Madame Veil, who ensured that we became well-known to the media, as well as by other foundations and personages, in the Christian world as well. Nevertheless, we had to be really active to make ends meet, because whether or not we find the bodies will depend upon our financial situation. We were thus compelled to carry on an active search for funds to raise the funds, since the entire organization is completely transparent (emphasis added).[56]
During his first deposition, Kula gave a very detailed description of these columns, so detailed, in fact, that he must have been involved in the columns’ manufacture, if they existed in the first place. Here is Kula’s statement from his deposition made prior to the trial against the former Auschwitz commandant Rudolf Höss:[6]
The following article is a continuation of Thomas Kues's Evidence for the Presence of “Gassed” Jews in the Occupied Eastern Territories, Part 1. Thomas Kues's analysis takes up the revisionist proposal that Jews sent to the “extermination camps” and allegedly gassed there were in fact deloused and then sent away, the vast majority of them to the occupied eastern territories. The camps therefore actually functioned as transit camps. The transit camp hypothesis is in perfect harmony with documented National Socialist Jewish policy as expressed in official and internal reports, documents on the Jewish transports, and even in classified communications between leading SS members.
The transports marked with asterisks are not confirmed by Danuta Czech’s Kalendarium and should be considered mere conjectures. Subtracting these yields a figure of 10,300 deportees. Czech on the other hand lists a transport of some 1,500 Krakow Jews “gassed” on March 14, 1943 (the final clearance of the Krakow ghetto took place on 13 March 1943).[105] This would bring the total of Krakow district transports confirmed by Czech to 11,800. Of these, however, we should in fact consider only 8,800 deportees, since transport no. 7 from Tarnów on July 31, 1944 took place at such a late date that no transports could be sent to the east of the General Government any longer (as the Red Army had by then already crossed its eastern borders). Why, then, were these 8,800 Jews sent west to Auschwitz? The most probable explanation is that they were to be utilized as workers. In a report dated July 9, 1942 on the labor situation in the Auschwitz camp we read:
Hatred often does result in violence. In France, where so many were quick to declare Je suis Charlie, Europe’s most prominent Holocaust revisionist scholar, Professor Robert Faurisson, sustained no less than ten physical assaults between 1978 and 1993. During one attack in 1989, assailants sprayed a stinging gas into his face temporarily blinding him. Three men then pummeled him to the ground where they repeatedly kicked him in the face and chest. At the time, Faurisson was 60 years old. The crime was ultimately attributed to “young Jewish activists from Paris.”[10] Dr. Faurisson, for reasons that his opponents are eager to misrepresent, persists in his efforts to improve historical understanding.
These Jews had most likely been transited via Auschwitz (in the case of the Belgian Jews) and Sobibór. Ochakov in the Mykolaiv Oblast is a Ukrainian town by the Black Sea, located about halfway between Kherson and Odessa. During the war the district of Ochakov (Oceacov) was part of the Transnistrian reservation.
The author of the most detailed book about Sobibor,[53] the Dutch Jew Julius Schelvis, was himself an inmate of this camp. He naturally presents Sobibor as a death factory, but his description is solely based on what he has heard from others or read in books, for he only spent a few hours at the camp. From Sobibor, he was deported to Lublin and later to Auschwitz whence he finally returned to the Netherlands. Schelvis was not an isolated case: At least 700 other Dutch Jews were moved from Sobibor to labor camps, and some of them returned home via Auschwitz – another “extermination camp” where the Germans apparently forgot to “gas” them.[54]
As a result of the apprentice bookburners and their efforts to burn two annual editions of Inconvenient History, we have decided to dedicate this Spring issue to the topic of Freedom of Speech. Make no mistake, those who side with the censors and the bookburners stand against intellectual freedom and liberty. Regardless of their motives, they are no different than the most repressive regimes and individuals in history who believe that they know better than you. As such, we have several important contributions. First, we are proud to present Germar Rudolf's "Resistance Is Obligation" a gripping account of his persecution for refusing to recant his scientific convictions. Dan McGowan recounts the story of his personal run-in with defamation on an American college campus. Jett Rucker describes one possible outcome of what he calls "reputational terrorism." We are also pleased to present Rich Siegel's timely commentary on the Palestinians as anything but an "invented" people. Thomas Dalton provides an interesting first-person look at the Treblinka concentration camp as it stands today in his "Postcard from Treblinka." Klaus Schwensen returns this issue with a detailed consideration of early revisionist Stephen F. Pinter. Finally Ezra MacVie is back with a fascinating look at Gilad Atzmon's The Wandering Who: A Study of Jewish Identity Politics.
A certain number of Jews were sent from the Reinhardt camps to Majdanek and to Auschwitz. A Polish historian who can hardly be suspected of revisionist sympathies, Zofia Leszczynska, reports that in October of 1942, 1,700 Jews left Belzec for Majdanek.[50] This fact is amply sufficient to shatter the official version according to which less than ten Jews survived Belzec.
One rather spectacular case displaying indications of this scenario is that of perhaps a leading Holocaust revisionist, Germar Rudolf, formerly of Germany. While a candidate for the Ph.D. in chemistry at the University of Stuttgart, Rudolf was hired to provide expert testimony in the trial of a person accused of the crime (in Germany) of Holocaust denial. Rudolf’s testimony was confined to the subjects of chemistry in which Rudolf was already in his late twenties an eminent authority. After the trial, Rudolf’s testimony, together with other non-contrite commentary by the defendant in the trial, was published as a book in Germany. For his contributions to the contents of this book, Rudolf found himself facing criminal charges of Holocaust denial. The process of Rudolf’s relegation began with the university’s threatening to withhold the Ph.D. degree for which Rudolf had in fact completed his dissertation.
It is the authors’ novel approach to analyzing the fatal defects of exterminationism that gives these books’ unique value. Perron and Fradin first establish that the exterminationists treat the Holocaust as if it were the result of a conspiracy: an evil deed planned by the German leadership and carried out by their henchmen in great secrecy. Next, rather than deconstruct the arguments of Holocaust exterminationism chronologically or by individual issue, e.g., the Wannsee Conference or the functioning of the “gas chambers,” Perron identifies numerous different fallacies in logic and scientific method that underlie exterminationist argumentation. He further illustrates (as does Fradin in a more abbreviated manner) how exterminationist writers, despite their indictment of the revisionists as conspiratorialists, rely on such fallacies in the same way JFK and 9/11 buffs do in their conspiratorialist constructs.
In discussing the Holocaust further, something else must be made clear, which those who have read popular history on the subject will not necessarily have considered. Like the Industrial Revolution or the Renaissance, or the Civil Rights Movement, the Holocaust is a construct. None of these events happened in the sense that the majority of people understand them to have. Their grandiose titles glibly encompass a multitude of incidents, enacted for complex and conflicting reasons over long periods of time, which in many cases bore little or no relation to each other. Lithuanian partisan fighters killed during a skirmish with the SS near Kaunas in 1942 have very little in common with a Czech forced laborer at the Buna rubber plant in Monowitz or an elderly, bourgeois Austrian sent to Theresienstadt, for example. It is history and history alone that has grouped them all together and titled them.
David Cole, a Jewish American, has also produced a very revealing video based on his visit to Auschwitz in September 1992. Wearing a yarmulke and pretending to be a “righteous” Jew wanting to answer those who question the Holocaust story, Cole paid extra for his personal English-language tour guide. The video shows numerous weaknesses of the alleged homicidal gas chamber at Auschwitz: 1) Obvious marks on the ceilings and floors where apparently walls had been knocked down; 2) Equally obvious holes in the floor where bathroom facilities had been; 3) A flimsy wooden door with a big glass pane in it; 4) A doorway with no door and no fittings for a door leading to the crematorium furnaces; 5) A big manhole right in the middle of the gas chamber; and 6) No Zyklon-B staining in the walls. Any reasonable person can tell that the alleged gas chamber shown in the video could not possibly have functioned as a homicidal gas chamber.
In late 2010 Claude Lanzmann's "documentary" Shoah was re-released with much brouhaha on the occasion of its 25th anniversary. It is "considered one of the greatest documentaries ever made." Although there have been a number of revisionist critiques of various aspects of the movie,[1] no thorough and complete analysis of its entire content of 9½ hours has ever been made. The present paper is the beginning of a series of papers which will try to accomplish just that.
In Part 2 of this documentary, we will explore some aspects of the most infamous of these camps: Auschwitz.
The Post goes on to report that Jürgen Matthäus, director of applied research at the USHMM’s Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies commented, “[Rosenberg] saw no reason to elaborate on fundamental Nazi goals, as he regarded them as self-evident.” [5] Matthäus continued:
These factors tick all the boxes in regard to the scholarly heresy termed ‘Holocaust relativism’. Will Prof. Douglas be subjected to the same persecution that has been meted out to others, for being, like John Sack, ‘worse than a holocaust denier’? Prof. Douglas remains oblivious to the possibility. I put to him the following:
“The Holocaust is something different. It is a singular event. It is not simply one example of genocide but a near successful attempt on the life of God’s chosen children and, thus, on God Himself. It is an event that is the antithesis of Creation as recorded in the Bible; and like its direct opposite, which is relived weekly with the Sabbath and yearly with the Torah, it must be remembered from generation to generation.”
After the execution, the ammonia was released and the gas expelled out of the chamber. All staff and witnesses were removed from the area. The ventilation fan ran for approximately an hour before two officers equipped with Scott air-packs (self-contained breathing apparatus which firemen use to enter smoke-filled buildings) opened the hatch of the gas chamber and removed the lead bucket containing the cyanide residue. The two officers wore rubberized disposable clothing and long rubber gloves. They hosed down the condemned man’s body in the chair, paying particular attention to the hair and the clothing because of the cyanide residue, then removed him and placed him on a gurney where further decontamination took place. The officers then hosed the entire inside of the gas chamber with regular cold water.[16]
Or perhaps it was no “surprise” at all. In 1989, a 90-year-old British naval intelligence officer named Eric Nave came forth with a stunning assertion: that the Brits had detailed foreknowledge of the attack, days before the event. As reported in the Times of London (June 1), Nave’s decoding of Japanese battle commands made “clear their intention to attack several days before the raid took place.” “His revelations challenge the view that the Americans were taken by surprise, and support evidence that Churchill, and probably Roosevelt, allowed the attack to go ahead unchallenged as means to bring America into the Second World War.” Nave added this: “We never had any doubt about Pearl Harbor itself. It should never have happened. We knew days, even a week before.” His account is detailed in his book Betrayal at Pearl Harbor (1991). Nave died in 1993.
Photo 16: Alleged Krema 2 gas chamber.
Gerald Reitlinger’s The Final Solution, one of the first historiographical works on the Holocaust, is published by Beechhurst Press, New York.
This reviewer does not wish to argue about how many people one can actually squeeze into the space of a square meter (= 10 square feet) in order to kill them. What is more interesting is how much space they needed for undressing and arranging their clothes in a reasonably calm way – certainly for getting ready to go into the “bath“ they will need a lot more space than the one square foot per head van Pelt allows them for the final kill. The undressing room is about twice the size of the “gassing chamber“, but even if this now thins such a crowd to something like four persons on a square meter (or one on a square of 50 by 50 cm), the people cannot possibly undress in an orderly fashion and unrest will most certainly start spreading among the victims-to-be, if not already present.
[4] “A Holocaust Belief Cleared Up,” Chicago Tribune, April 25, 1990. Also Globe and Mail, Toronto, April 25, 1990.  Also Hutman, Bill, "Nazis never made human-fat soap," The Jerusalem Post - International Edition, week ending May 5, 1990.
British intelligence reports also confirm that Jews controlled the Communist revolution in the Soviet Union. The first sentence in a lengthy British intelligence report dated July 16, 1919, stated: “There is now definite evidence that Bolshevism is an international movement controlled by Jews.” Even Winston Churchill, in an article appearing in the Illustrated Sunday Herald on February 8, 1920 wrote:[5]
The expansion of the Kriegsgefangenenlager of Birkenau to 200,000 persons was ordered by Himmler during his visit to Auschwitz on 17 and 18 July 1942. In a letter dated 3 August 1942, addressed to the Amt C V of the SS-Wirtschafts-Verwaltungshauptamt, Bischoff wrote:
Tauber stated in his deposition concerning the alleged gas chambers: “The roof of the gas chamber was supported by concrete pillars running down the middle of its length. On either side of these pillars there were four others, two on each side. The sides of these pillars, which went up through the roof, were of heavy wire mesh. Inside this grid, there was another of finer mesh and inside that a third of very fine mesh. Inside this last mesh cage there was a removable can that was pulled out with a wire to recover the pellets from which the gas had evaporated.”[17]
Deborah Lipstadt writes in her book Denying the Holocaust that “on some level Irving seems to conceive himself as carrying on Hitler’s legacy.” Lipstadt describes Irving as a “Hitler partisan wearing blinkers” who “distort[ed] evidence…manipulate[ed] documents, [and] skew[ed]…and misrepresent[ed] data in order to reach historically untenable conclusions.”[3] David Irving brought a suit against Deborah Lipstadt and Penguin Books Ltd. in British courts to end these and other similar libelous statements.
Those claiming that a gigantic mass-murder operation unfolded at these places have to deliver the kinds of evidence required in any murder case: primarily traces of the bodies, evidence of murder, and any kind of trace of the murder weapon. The archaeological investigations mentioned earlier were carried out to some degree to do exactly that: locate bodily remains, determine the way they died, and find traces of the gas chambers. Revisionist critics have claimed that the evidence actually found falls extremely short of what has to be expected, yet orthodox counter-critics have argued otherwise.[14]
[12] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 174.
As soon as the gas chambers were full, the Ukrainians closed the doors and started the engine. Some 20 to 25 minutes later an SS man or a Ukrainian looked through a window in the door. When he had made sure that everyone had been asphyxiated, the Jewish prisoners had to open the doors and remove the corpses. Because the chambers were overcrowded and the victims had held onto one another, they were all standing upright and were like one single mass of flesh.[28]
Joseph Bendersky wrote The “Jewish Threat” to show that anti-Semitism permeated the highest ranks of the U.S. military throughout the last century.[27] Much of the book’s extensive research and documentation, however, proves the disproportionate power of Jews in America through their own words and actions. The U.S. military-intelligence leaders were merely reacting to this disproportionate power as loyal and patriotic Americans. The “Jewish Threat” thus contributes to the large body of evidence indicating that a cabal of powerful, interconnected Jews has taken control of America to the detriment of virtually all of its citizens.
Holocaust revisionists follow what can be called the precedence of the archives, and in keeping with the hierarchy of probative value as discussed in Section 2.1., Point 5, they give an even higher precedence to material, physical, forensic evidence with all the technology it involves. That is “normal and accepted standards of scholarship” everywhere – except when it comes to mainstream Holocaust researchers, who turn this pyramid on its head, giving witness statements priority over documents, and documents priority over forensic evidence and technical arguments. Hence, the proper way of putting it is:
“Words like ‘Holocaust’ and ‘genocide’ are bandied about without thought for their actual meaning, and Polish prison camps like Łambinowice and Świętochłowice are labelled ‘extermination camps’ as if the hundreds of people who died in them are somehow equivalent to the millions shoveled into ovens at Sobibor [sic], Bełzec and Treblinka.” [emphasis mine]
Here we clearly have the notion of a killing center for Jews, even if the idea of gassings (or killing by steam for that matter) had not yet entered the story and the scale of the alleged killings is smaller. It is perhaps significant though that both the 29 May and (less explicitly) the 9 June version rely on the propagandistic theme that the Germans were employing outlandish and cruel methods of murder in order to “save bullets”. Some 40-50 days after these “revelations” the mass murders at Treblinka began according to established historiography. The idea of industrialized mass murder in “death chambers” must have been attached to the new Treblinka camp at some time between mid-June and – at the latest – 8 July (the day before the press conference).
According to mainstream historiography, during a period from December 1941 to the fall of 1944, millions of European Jews were murdered in homicidal gas chambers in six camps in Poland – the “combined concentration and extermination camps” of Auschwitz-Birkenau and Majdanek (Lublin) and the “pure extermination camps” of Chełmno (Kulmhof), Bełżec, Sobibór and Treblinka. Revisionist historians, however, dispute this claim, considering it a theory completely lacking of documentary as well as material proof. In a number of studies, they have shown, based on documentary as well as archeological-forensic and technical evidence, that the alleged homicidal gas chambers in these camps never existed, that the alleged numbers of victims did not perish at these sites, and that there never existed a National-Socialist plan for a systematic physical extermination of the European Jews to begin with. The revisionists further propose that the Jews sent to the “extermination camps” and allegedly gassed there were in fact deloused and then sent away, the vast majority of them to the occupied eastern territories[1], so that said camps actually functioned as transit camps. This transit camp hypothesis is in perfect harmony with documented National Socialist Jewish policy as expressed in official and internal reports, documents on the Jewish transports, and even in classified communications between leading SS members.[2] The exterminationists on the other hand are forced to explain away terms such as Durchgangslager (transit camp), Ostwanderung (“wandering to the east”), Umsiedlung (resettlement) and Aussiedlung (emigration) as verbal camouflage.
The social stigmatization normally associated with ‘Holocaust denial’ has become so pervasive and all-encompassing that only the most committed advocates of free speech will publicly risk an unfettered defense of the right to unrestricted expression of opinion for revisionist historians and independent researchers. The courageous defense of such advocates and assorted literati is especially commendatory in view of the fact that their statements of conscience are sometimes published at considerable risk to themselves and their own reputations. One of the few organizations that actively campaigns in defense of free speech issues for revisionists is the Institute for Historical Review, in Costa Mesa, California, which closely monitors the carefully orchestrated, well-organized and highly-financed attempts by special interest groups to stifle free inquiry, research and open debate.
Therefore, according to German criminal-justice law only the judges who have conducted a criminal trial are empowered at their discretion to interpret the proffered evidence, and based thereon, to pronounce a verdict. Thereby, they are constrained by absolutely nothing—neither by logic nor by truthfulness nor by honesty. In other words: this is a blank check for German judges to err with no correction and to lie and swindle with impunity.
Judge Charles Gray did not agree with Irving, but one hardly needs the sanction of judicial opinion to recognize that the Holocaust Denier label is intended to discredit, not illuminate, in the same way that "nigger" is. What would it mean to prove to the satisfaction of a court that someone "really was" a nigger? Only that racism was alive and well in the judicial system. In a similar way, the court's decision against Irving represents complicity in the demonization of Holocaust heretics, not a victory for history and truth, as was claimed by the capitalist media in the wake of the trial.
The defense in the Doctors’ Trial at Nuremberg submitted evidence of doctors in the United States performing medical experiments on prison inmates and conscientious objectors during the war. The evidence showed that large-scale malaria experiments were performed on 800 American prisoners, many of them black, from federal penitentiaries in Atlanta and state penitentiaries in Illinois and New Jersey. U.S. doctors conducted human experiments with malaria tropica, one of the most dangerous of the malaria strains, to aid the U.S. war effort in Southeast Asia.[6]
If we follow the orthodox Holocaust narrative, the so-called Aktion Reinhardt Camps – Bełżec, Sobibór and Treblinka – were pure extermination camps. In the very lethal sense of the word, they are said to have been dead ends for Jewish deportees sent there, who were allegedly murdered in homicidal gas chambers using engine-exhaust gas, and their corpses subsequently buried and later exhumed and cremated on huge outdoor pyres.[1]
Startling evidence was also revealed in 1989 when the Soviets released some of the Auschwitz death-registry volumes that fell into Soviet hands in January 1945 when the Red Army captured Auschwitz. The death certificates contained in these volumes were official German documents issued by Auschwitz camp doctors upon the death of an inmate. Each death certificate includes the deceased person’s full name, profession and religion, date and place of birth, pre-Auschwitz residence, parents’ names, time of death, cause of death, and a camp physician’s signature. The death-registry volumes recorded the deaths of approximately 69,000 Auschwitz inmates, of whom approximately 30,000 were Jewish. Most of the deaths were caused by disease, although some death certificates recorded executions by shooting or hanging. None of the death certificates recorded death by gassing.[21]
Rather than hoping for additional prosecutions, we should hope that this case marks their end. It is clear that after decades of court cases no evidence fit to support a conviction has been adduced that John Demjanjuk perpetrated any crimes during the period now known as the Holocaust. It is clear however that many misguided prosecutors and activists destroyed the life of this peaceable autoworker, making him the latest and if we are lucky the last victim of the Holocaust.
Historians have acknowledged that no similar document of a plan by Germany to exterminate European Jewry has ever been found. In his well-known book on the Holocaust, French-Jewish historian Leon Poliakov states that “…the campaign to exterminate the Jews, as regards its conception as well as many other essential aspects, remains shrouded in darkness.” Poliakov adds that no documents of a plan for exterminating the Jews have ever been found because “perhaps none ever existed.”[2] British historian Ian Kershaw states that when the Soviet archives were opened in the early 1990s:[3]
Due both to the way in which Walendy reproduced the newspaper article and the fact that revisionists Jürgen Graf and Carlo Mattogno in their seminal study on Treblinka from 2002 (2004 in German) do not mention the Dziennik Polski article, while summarizing Walendy’s writings on the subject in their review of literature on the camp,[2] certain online anti-revisionists have asserted that Walendy committed a forgery, and that Graf and Mattogno tacitly ignored the article out of opportunistic motivations. “Holocaust scholar” Nick Terry writes in an online forum post from 19 June 2009: [3]
Malkin’s basic thesis is that the Internment of the Japanese was “justifiable”. True, this is a moral, rather than a historical, judgment, and as such is weak. A better way to frame her thesis would be to say that the internment of the Japanese was, at least primarily, the result of legitimate national security issues, i.e., that Japanese and Japanese Americans constituted a real threat to the United States during the Second World War. As such her thesis is revisionist in the basic sense, since the typical interpretation is that the confinement of Japanese Americans in concentration camps was primarily due to anti-Japanese racism and general war hysteria rather than national security concerns.
After the war’s end, Rosenberg would find himself dragged before the Nuremberg tribunal to stand trial. When the Allied judgment came down, Rosenberg was found guilty of all four counts of the indictment, namely: 1) Conspiracy to commit crimes alleged in other counts; 2) Crimes against peace; 3) War Crimes; 4) Crimes against humanity.[20]
Starting on 3 October 1991, at the Auschwitz State Museum at Auschwitz-Birkenau, an international conference was held on the topic of the persecution of the Gypsies during the Second World War. The related papers were published in 1998 in a book entitled Sinti und Roma im KL Auschwitz-Birkenau 1943-44. Vor dem Hintergrund ihrer Verfolgung unter der Naziherrschaft [Sinti and Roma in the Auschwitz-Birkenau Concentration Camp 1943-44. Against the Background of Their Persecution under Nazi Domination].[1]
Housing, in any case, varied quite as much at Oak Ridge as it did at Auschwitz, with disfavored racial groups (Jews in Auschwitz, blacks in Oak Ridge) occupying the lower strata of the available range. Most blacks at Oak Ridge, in fact, were kept in gender-separated barracks, much as Jews were at Auschwitz, no matter if they were married to each other, and absolutely no matter if they had children—blacks were not allowed to bring children to Oak Ridge, while whites, of course, were. Some fortunate blacks managed to gain the blessings of cohabitation by acquiring access to structures known as “hutments” on the grounds. This form of housing was provided only for blacks; whites enjoyed consistently superior alternatives. The remains of similar dwellings at Auschwitz today are limited to the brick fireplaces and chimneys arrayed across a field at Birkenau (nothing whatsoever remains of the hutments in Tennessee). The hutments had no brick components at all; then again, winters there were shorter and milder, so that such amenities were required only in the equivalent structures provided for whites.
“[…] the discoloration on the outside of walls [of the delousing chambers], ought to make one consider what possible processes could have taken place outside of the delousing chambers. For example, is it possible that materials that had been soaked with aqueous solutions of HCN were leaned against the outside of the buildings? Not enough is known, but it is premature to conclude that the staining on the outside of buildings owes its origins to processes that took place within those buildings.”
According to an estimate by the Swedish statistician Carl Nordling, to whom I submitted the Israeli government assessments, if those figures are rounded to an average of 900,000 then it will be reasonable to conclude that in 1945 the number of survivors slightly exceeded three million. Even today, the “survivors”  organizations abound under the most varied names; they bring together former Jewish résistants, Jewish forced laborers, Jews who were fugitives or living undercover during the war as well as former “children of Auschwitz”; this last group includes Jewish children born in that camp or interned there from infancy with their parents. Auschwitz, like many other camps, was equipped with hospital buildings or infirmaries where Jews, like Elie Wiesel himself, had access to care.
“His basic argument is that the documents cited by Pressac as ‘traces’ of homicidal ‘gas chambers’ are references to air-raid shelters, or to their fittings or equipment. Specifically, he contends, the Birkenau crematory morgue rooms – the supposed ‘gas chambers’ where, it is alleged, hundreds of thousands of Jews were killed with ‘Zyklon’ pesticide – were modified to also serve as air-raid shelters with features to protect against possible Allied attacks with poison gas.”
December. Maurice Bardèche’s book Nuremberg II ou les Faux-Monnayeurs (Nuremberg, or the counterfeiters) is published by Les Sept Couleurs (Paris). Bardèche criticizes the legal framework of IMT Nuremberg, the reliance on evidence presented by the USSR, the hypocrisy regarding war crimes perpetrated by the Allies, and the treatment of witnesses and accused at Nuremberg as well as in connection with the Einsatzgruppen, I.G. Farben, Dachau and Malmédy trials. Bardèche had read Rassinier’s books Passage de la Ligne and Le Mensonge d’Ulysse and quotes extensively from them, while criticizing as unrealistic Rassinier’s suggestion that the authorities in Berlin did not know exactly what went on in the camps. In addition to affirming Rassinier’s rejection of the Buchenwald gas chamber allegations, he expresses doubt regarding the alleged gassings at Dachau, and also characterizes Höss’ statement regarding mass gassings of Jews at Auschwitz as “surrounded by plenty of astonishing circumstances”.[1]
There is little chance that this book will find new converts to Holocaust revisionism. Unfortunately even that hardcore group of revisionist completionists who seek out this handsome and well-made volume will likely let this one sit on the shelf and gather dust after perusing the photos and pictures. Alvarez has made an in-depth analysis of an important topic; one almost completely ignored by both sides of the Holocaust debate, but has done so in a style that will likely result in its neglect. That is unfortunate, because the fall of this pillar of Holocaust mythology is long overdue.
Yet, again as in the case of Russia, the Holocaust mythology stands on some shaky ground in Poland. The remembrance of the suffering that both Poles and Germans experienced under Communism could be a future unifying force between the two. The finding of mass graves dating from the end of WWII have brought the two together.[82] In September 2009, the Polish parliament passed a resolution condemning the Soviet invasion of Poland, which led to a massive loss of Polish lives and prison camps for many. The resolution, which irked Russia, referred to a series of massacres of Poles in Russia, as well as mass deportations of over one million Poles to Siberia. Poland also called on Russia to condemn the crimes.[83]
“Local German civilians are ordered to tour Buchenwald Concentration Camp.”
A comparison between the different versions of the Prisoner’s Report shows that the relatively sober, if biased report of the Communist inmate Hellmut Bock and his comrades was enhanced by an array of new horror stories. Without the slightest doubt this was done at the behest of the Soviet commission which was carrying out “investigations” in the camp. At least partially, the Prisoner’s Report, one of the earliest documents about the situation prevailing at Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp, may be a useful historical source, but owing to the interference of the Soviet authorities, quite obviously became a piece of atrocity propaganda.
Can this be used to convict revisionists, accused of “denying the Holocaust”? Nothing in it alludes to ordinary citizens; it is simply an Act “sur la liberté de la presse.” Yet twenty or so French revisionists have been prosecuted under it.
While the payments for losing World War One eventually came to an end, shedding the guilt of World War Two amounts to denouncing the Virgin Mary as a harlot during the Inquisition – even analyzing the Nazi Holocaust is the heresy of the 20th and now 21st century. The guilt of World War Two and its associated atrocities are fundamental to our world vision, our expansion of empire and our perpetual wars. For every would-be tyrant, every former-friend-turned–despot, enables a military action if only to prevent another "Chamberlain at Munich." Every opportunity for diplomacy and peace is painted as foolishness that is better resolved by blitzkrieg. Any ideology other than social democracy is a threat that requires the speedy deployment of our well-armed forces. The empire spreads and the economy inflates. Even during our recent economic failures, the fear of mass depression (the worst since FDR's New Deal) prevents the conclusion of hostilities abroad. For without war we would surely feel the Depression's icy blast once again.
To better understand the circumstances of the Great Crime, we need to further examine German actions toward the Jews both before and at the start of the war. Earlier we saw that, in 1923, the NYT declared that Hitler’s program included the “extermination” of the Jews—though they were careful not to elaborate. The year before, they were even more explicit; they wrote of his “excesses against law and order, and his speeches inciting his audiences to kill Jews and Socialists” (20 Dec 1922; p. 2)—again based on slanted translations. The London Times had it more correct. They reported that Hitler wanted “all Jews resident in Bavaria…to be rounded up in concentration camps. … In remote parts of the countryside, Jewish colonies are to be formed…which will be strictly isolated from all other sections of the population” (6 Nov 1923; p. 14).
Likewise, a very similar statement could be used to describe Heschel's traditional view of the Holocaust. The institutional power of the Jewish-Zionist power elite has transformed "Holocaust" falsehoods into accepted truth, a system of power that could be rightly termed an "ideological regime of the Holocaust." The only unquestionable ideology in the Western World today is that of the "Holocaust," as it has been elevated to the status of a secular religion. In the Western world, the Holocaust religion does not require justification before the bar of reason and historical investigation. Quite the contrary! It cannot even be disputed in "respectable" forums. Belief in it is strictly enforced with taboos, underhanded tactics and prison sentences in many European nations for people who dispute it. Indeed, in America and Europe the Holocaust is to be slavishly accepted as "historical fact," and any "Holocaust deniers" are to be persecuted and/or denied a public forum in mainstream discourse. The intolerant Holocaust religion is the ideological backdrop of Heschel's theological and historical views.
Serbia is one of the very few countries for which there is any documentary evidence of killings of Gypsies. A small proportion of these – together a larger number of Jews – were in fact shot in reprisal for the activities of Tito partisans. The hostages were theoretically all women, since “it was contrary to the attitude (Auffassung) of German soldiers and officials to take female hostages”, unless they were the wives or relatives of partisans fighting in the mountains.”[79] In a note dated 25 October 1941, Franz Rademacher, head of the Jewish section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, wrote:
“Under proper guidance, in the course of the final solution the Jews are to be allocated for appropriate labor in the East. Able-bodied Jews, separated according to sex, will be taken in large work columns to these areas for work on roads, in the course of which action doubtless a large portion will be eliminated by natural causes. The possible final remnant will, since it will undoubtedly consist of the most resistant portion, have to be treated accordingly, because it is the product of natural selection and would, upon release (bei Freilassung), act as the seed of a new Jewish revival.”
Only after the collapse of the Communist Eastern Bloc did the Polish Auschwitz authorities start to acknowledge the fact that the facility as presented to visitors today is not an accurate “reconstruction” of the former alleged gas chamber, although the tour guides kept misrepresenting it to visitors. A sign hinting at a few of the inaccuracies of this botched reconstruction was installed near that building only in the early 2000s, see Illustration 1. The wall originally separating the morgue (or “gas chamber”, marked “c” on the plans) from the washroom (marked “b” on the plans) is missing today.
The same year also saw the first English (and 2nd German) edition of my Lectures on the Holocaust, where I briefly addressed the issue of access doors to the morgue, albeit with a focus on the swing door between the morgue and the furnace room, shown on several war-time floor plans.[19] The same emphasis on that swing door, with much more detail, can be found in Eric Hunt’s introductory contribution to C. Mattogno’s 2016 book Curated Lies.[20] While this proves that the blueprints do not reflect any outfitting of the morgue for homicidal purposes, it can be argued that such secrecy was in fact intentional, meaning that the floor plans were simply not updated in this regard, in particular regarding the swing door, in order to conceal the criminal changes made.
Then the news magazine SPIEGEL made use of the “Mogilev photo”. The SPIEGEL people may have recognized that the caption “Mogilev Gassing Experiment” which is inserted into the picture (Fig. 9) did not suit a historical photo and removed the caption by retouching. Thus, a forgery was manipulated again to make it more credible. And then there was Saul Friedländer who sought an illustration for the (alleged) gas chamber of Belzec. He also could not use the caption and removed it, this time by cutting it away and filling the gap with another photo, thus creating a photomontage, which he finally used to illustrate a scene which (allegedly) had taken place at quite another location (Belzec instead of Mogilev). How Der Spiegel and Saul Friedländer got hold of one of these pictures remains unknown.
“Away to our left, pyres were blazing deep in the Secret Grove. Further beyond, the crematorium was puffing out black smoke.” (p. 146)
Second and more important is the effect this may have had on FDR’s actions prior to and during World War II. With even a partial Jewish heritage, he may have been more sympathetic to the Jewish cause, more amenable to Jews within his administration, and more likely to sacrifice on behalf of Jewish interests. The evidence shows that all these things actually happened—which is precisely why “Franklin Roosevelt was the first great hero of American Jews” (Shogan 2010: xi). The ‘family connection’ would certainly help to explain such things.
The Gas Vans fills a significant hole in Holocaust literature. Often forgotten in the public mind and limited to minor entries in the most important Holocaust tomes, (gas vans are mentioned on 4 pages out of 790 in Hilberg’s The Destruction of the European Jews and on 7 pages out of 622 in Reitlinger’s The Final Solution). While they may seem unimportant to the broader Holocaust story, one must pause when one realizes that the Holocaust fundamentalists charge that as many as 700,000 fell victim to these wheeled killing machines. Recognizing that the gas vans were charged with something greater than 10% of claimed Jewish Holocaust deaths, and with formerly key elements of the traditional story like the extermination camp at Majdanek being whittled away (total deaths have been reduced since 1944 from 1.7 million to some 60,000), it is a wonder that greater emphasis has not been placed on the gas van story. Revisionists, most notably Friedrich Berg and Ingrid Weckert have addressed the subject in various articles, but this volume represents the first book-length treatment in English from either camp in the Holocaust controversy.
15. Why not the law? Options for dealing with genocide and Holocaust denial
The “Explanatory Report on the Expansion of the Waffen-SS POW Camp at Auschwitz, Upper Silesia” drawn up by Bischoff on 30 September 1943, for construction sector III of the camp mentions among other things:
According to Arad, however, when three new gas chambers were added in autumn of 1942, they were the same size as the “old” gas chambers, 4 x 4 meters. He made no mention of any “trap doors” through which the bodies fell into carts positioned below.[51]
What was the time frame of the killings? From June 1941 through summer 1944, about three years, in much of which whole regions were not in Nazi hands or had been lost. How many Jews could have been killed and how quickly? Rhodes in his Masters of Death, a study of the Einsatzgruppen, claims that these squads usually employed small groups of 4-8 men working in shifts with rifles or pistols and killing thousands or tens of thousands of Jews at a time. Interestingly, he estimates a grand total of about 1.5 million Jews killed by the Einsatzgruppen. Rhodes also suggests that the Einsatzgruppen were so overwhelmed psychologically from allegedly killing 1.5 million Jews that SS-Reichsführer Himmler ultimately decided to shift responsibility for the extermination of the Jews, from squad killings to a more 'industrial' and efficient approach using gas chambers at Auschwitz and elsewhere. Rhodes is one of those court historians who, when it comes to the official version of the Holocaust, accepts all 'eyewitness' accounts, evinces no skepticism whatever, allows all possibilities, asks no inconvenient questions, and breaks no taboos.
As documented in this article, chemists adhering to the orthodox Holocaust narrative have failed to explain why the walls of the delousing facilities at Auschwitz/ Birkenau are permeated with Prussian Blue, while nothing of this sort can be observed in any of the alleged homicidal gas chambers. The only reasonable explanation is that Zyklon B was never used in the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau. Nicholas Kollerstrom writes:[26]
Unfortunately, Riefenstahl’s genius is slighted because she made films for Hitler. Her stature will be fully restored once it is understood that Hitler had never wanted war and did not commit genocide against European Jewry.[28] Riefenstahl may then unreservedly be recognized as one of the greatest film artists of the 20th Century.
“However, Richard Green and Jamie McCarthy have shown that the ventilation system of the crematoria was able to quickly remove the gas. The gas chambers of the Crematoria 2 and 3 were 30 m long by 7 m wide and 2.4 m high, which resulted in a volume of 504 cubic meters. They were equipped with a ventilation system with both intake and exhaust fans that were capable of cycling 8000 cubic meters [of air] per hour through the room. In other words, the system was able to create 8,000 : 604 = 15.8 air exchanges per hour.”
Photo #1 (May 31): This Allied photo shows the four Birkenau crematoria, without a hint of smoke from any of them. We do see one, thin smoke plume emanating from behind Krema 5; it evidently came from a single, small pit fire.
“There’s one final reason, of course, why the world is a better place for this book being in it; which is that there are still those who want to pretend none of this ever happened. Recently, at a talk I gave about my Auschwitz book, I was confronted by a Holocaust denier who started screaming at me. He would not listen to argument and was high on insane conspiracy theories. Such people really do exist. And there is always the chance that once everyone personally involved in this terrible history has died, more attempts will be made to diminish or deny what really happened. Each of the people who agreed to give their testimony to this project fights back personally against such a calumny. Each of them bears witness to the truth that there existed in Europe in the middle of the twentieth century a criminal regime like no other in history. Each of them preserves the memory of their suffering forever.” (p. 3)
While revisionists should be comfortable accepting Karski’s story, traditionalist Holocaust believers face a different situation. Karski’s account of Belzec is absolutely incompatible with the standard understanding that it was, at the time of Karski’s visit, an extermination camp equipped with homicidal gas chambers, at which transports of Jews arrived but from which they never departed.[95] In light of the total non-viability of the Izbica thesis, it would be no surprise if traditionalist Holocaust historians should decide that Karski’s story was a lie from beginning to end. On the face of things, such an argument might seem acceptable. To be sure, it would be politically awkward, given the degree to which Karski has been promoted as a hero, not to mention his key position in the Polish national mythology concerning Poland’s relation to the Holocaust. When a man has been awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom for having “told the truth, all the way to President Roosevelt himself,”[96] it’s a little awkward to turn around and argue that he was a persistent and determined liar. Nevertheless, the honest Holocaust believer has no choice but to do so.
The original International Military Tribunal (IMT) had planned to indict a prominent industrialist who typified the complicity of German business in Hitler’s programs. However, the IMT refused to include an industrialist as a defendant. Instead, the decision to conduct trials of German industrialists for war crimes was left to each of the Allies.[3]
In fact, there is evidence pointing in a different direction. Most importantly, there is a letter in the German Federal Archives by Dr. Sigmund Rascher to Heinrich Himmler dated August 9, 1942, which reads:[26]
Many of the most-outlandish eyewitness claims have been quietly dropped by defenders of the Holocaust story. For example, it was claimed at the Nuremberg trials that the Germans made soap from the bodies of Jews. The judges at Nuremberg stated in their verdict that “in some instances attempts were made to utilize the fat from the bodies of the victims in the commercial manufacture of soap.”[3] In April 1990, officials at Israel’s Yad Vashem Holocaust Center admitted that the human-soap stories were not true. Yad Vashem Archives Director Shmuel Krakowski said: “Historians have concluded that soap was not made from human fat. When so many people deny that the Holocaust ever happened, why give them something to use against the truth?”[4]
The statements which were admitted as evidence were obtained from men who had first been kept in solitary confinement for three, four, and five months. They were confined between four walls, with no windows, and no opportunity of exercise. Two meals a day were shoved in to them through a slot in the door. They were not allowed to talk to anyone. They had no communication with their families or any minister or priest during that time.
“Fred Leuchter is described in words as a sort of technician of death administered in four ways: electrocution, hanging, lethal injection, and gassing. But while Morris takes care to illustrate the first three methods of execution with numerous images, he carefully avoids showing even one image of an American penitentiary gas chamber. And he is right to do so, for the mere representation of the imposing door of such a chamber would…be enough to let the attentive viewer grasp that the putting to death of one man by gassing with hydrocyanic acid calls for extensive safety measures and a highly sophisticated technique.”[16]
"During recent years surprising new revelations have emerged about activities of the SS in the Byelorussian city of Mogilev.[3] Jean-Claude Pressac has shown that, in mid-November 1941, the Topf Company of Erfurt received a commission to construct a huge crematorium at Mogilev; the order came from Amt II of the SS Main Office for Budget and Building (Hauptamt Haushalt und Bauten). On December 30, 1941, an oven with four cremation chambers was delivered and assembled. Three more ovens were available by August 1942 for delivery to Mogilev and were then 'diverted' to Auschwitz. The SS Building Administration of 'Russia Center' already had paid most of the money for all these ovens." (p. 61)
But "strong men" were not sent to the gas chamber but rather, to work.
"Das Krematorium II wurde unter Einsatz aller verfügbaren Kräfte trotz unsagbarer Schwierigkeiten und Frostwetter bei Tag- und Nachtbetrieb bis auf bauliche Kleinigkeiten fertiggestellt. Die Öfen wurden im Beisein des Herrn Oberingenieur Prüfer der ausführenden Firma, Firma Topf u. Söhne, Erfurt, angefeuert und funktionieren tadellos. Die Eisenbetondecke des Leichenkellers konnte infolge Frosteinwirkung noch nicht ausgeschalt werden. Dies ist jedoch unbedeutend, da der Vergasungskeller hierfür benützt werden kann.”[34] (Crematorium II has been completed, by using all available manpower, in spite of extreme difficulties and severe frost and by running day and night shifts. The ovens were fired up in the presence of senior engineer Prüfer of the contracting firm, Topf & Söhne, and function perfectly. The planking of the reinforced concrete ceiling of the corpse cellar could not yet be stripped because of the effect of the frost. This is, however, of no importance, because the gassing cellar can be used for this purpose.)
Further confusion would come soon after the Chavez report, when, in an American investigation report of May 15, it was stated that “The supply of gas into the chamber was controlled by means of two valves on one of the outer walls… The gas was let into the chamber through pipes terminating in perforated brass fixtures set into the ceiling.”[4] No gas from the floor, no rows of perforated pipes, but now “perforated brass fixtures.” Today, incidentally, there is no evidence whatsoever of brass fixtures. Significantly, the May 15 report also stated that “the ceiling was some 10 feet in height.” Today it is about 2.15 meters, or 6 feet 10 inches. This is a huge discrepancy, and not attributable to misjudgment; clearly the ceiling was lowered, after takeover by the Americans.
Many of those who contacted me can confirm my statements, but are afraid to do so publicly. Some of those are SS men who were brutally mistreated and even tortured in Allied captivity. I also immediately contacted those who claimed to know more about mass gassings. My experiences were precisely the same as those of French professor Paul Rassinier. I have not found any eyewitnesses. Instead, people would tell me that they knew someone who knew someone else, who talked about it. In most cases the alleged eyewitnesses had died. Other supposed eyewitnesses would quickly begin to stammer and stutter when I asked a few precise questions. Even Simon Wiesenthal had to finally admit before a Frankfurt district court that he was actually never in Auschwitz. All of the reports I have heard about are contradictory. Everyone seemed to tell a different story about the gas chambers. They couldn’t even agree about where they were supposed to have been located. This is also true of the so-called scholarly literature, which is full of contradictions.…[25]
Richard Evans does not seem to be concerned that David Irving’s arrests were attributable to the fact that numerous countries make it a felony to dispute the so-called Holocaust. This reflects poorly on the countries Irving was arrested in rather than on Irving’s abilities as a historian. The question is: “What kind of historical truth needs criminal sanctions to protect it?” The Holocaust story would not need criminal sanctions to protect it if it were solidly based on historiographic evidence.
Eli M. Rosenbaum, director of the US Justice Department’s Office of Special Investigations (OSI), summed up the US and German governments’ stance on Demjanjuk: “Thousands of Jews were murdered in the gas chambers of Sobibor, and John Demjanjuk helped seal their fate.”[1]
[20] Marcuse, Harold, Legacies of Dachau: The Uses and Abuses of a Concentration Camp, 1933-2001, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001, p. 221.
Irving is longing for the good old times when he was invited to television discussions, when his books were favorably reviewed and sold well. He wants these good old times to return. On the other hand, he knows that he will be treated as an outcast as long as he is labeled a “Holocaust denier”, so he wants to get rid of this label at any cost.
Butz’s second main argument is that the Holocaust myth rests on the dual interpretation of innocuous items or events whose meaning the creators of the myth turned into something ill-boding. In the preface to the 2015 edition of his book, Butz writes about that – quote:[31]
[3] Kollerstrom, Nicholas, Breaking the Spell: The Holocaust, Myth and Reality, Uckfield, UK: Castle Hill Publishers, 2014, pp. 158-174.
In November 2005, David Irving imprudently visited the once free Austria where he was promptly arrested for a “Holocaust-denying” speech he had made in 1989. At his trial, Irving said certain things for which we have no right to blame him: He wanted to be a free man again as soon as possible and to be reunited with his family. In his situation, many people would have done the same thing. For his cooperative attitude, the Austrian kangaroo court sentenced Irving to three years imprisonment. In December 2006, after serving one third of his prison term, he was released and allowed to return to England.
Just as Americans view a threat on the president’s life as a serious national security matter, Germans view Holocaust denial as a veiled attempt to rehabilitate the Nazis, a serious concern given the country’s past. This is why Germans ban not only Holocaust denial but also the swastika, the Nazi salute and the singing of the first verse of ‘Deutschland über alles.’
Which brings us to the screamingly obvious subtext behind the “moral equivalence” that is so confidently projected onto to Baker’s patchwork. To wit, that it is a byword, meant to evoke the infinite moral weight of a singular event – an event conceived with theological precision to counter every imagined asymmetry. “It takes a fair amount of audacity to challenge the conventional wisdom about World War II,” wrote Richard Cohen in a Washington Post column critical of Baker’s thesis. “This is especially the case since the war has become conflated with the Holocaust, the evil of which cannot possibly be argued.”
“Large-scale deportations started on May 15, 1944, only two months after the German invasion, and 430,000 Hungarian Jews were shipped to Auschwitz within just eight weeks; about 75% were killed immediately upon arrival.” (p. 114)
Holocaust deniers, with their unspeakable theories, injure the human dignity of the Jews, the memory of the victims, and their history…Their goal is to stir up hatred against the Jews, and their hidden motive is to whitewash the National Socialists and make their dangerous ideology once again acceptable.[25]
Finally, on the matter of the victim count, there is an obvious question to be raised regarding the interrogations at Nuremberg and other detention centers. If, as it seems clear that we should, we accept that the six million figure had little to do with an attempt to count the actual numbers of Jewish dead, but stemmed instead from the propagandistic statements of Zionist groups dating back fifty years, why did it show up in this key witness statement? Although, in itself, not definitely further evidence of coercion or at least leading questioning, it is otherwise a remarkable coincidence. How does one explain the fact that Wilhelm Höttl just happened to include in his affidavit the exact same number mentioned first by Rabbi Wise in 1900, then by other Zionist figureheads throughout the first part of the twentieth century, even though that number is not thought to be particularly accurate by many leading Holocaust historians today? As we know that the WJC had already suggested the figure to Jackson, it only requires a modest leap of faith to propose that it may, in turn, have been passed on to the interrogators who would have used it to shape their interrogations.[21]
Vladimir Lenin once stated: “The best way to control the opposition is to lead it ourselves.”[30] The evidence indicates that the peace movement of the 1960s was not a grass-roots challenge to the Vietnam War. Rather, the “hippie/flower-child” movement was a fake opposition that could be easily controlled and neutralized. The Laurel Canyon musicians and other leaders of the countercultural movement were typically as much a part of the military/intelligence community as the people they were supposedly opposing.[31]
The grates were so low that under them there was hardly any space for fuelwood which anyhow was scarce in the completely destroyed city. So the bodies were soaked with gasoline or Diesel fuel whereupon they smoldered for hours. This improvised cremation had very little in common with the incineration of a body in a crematorium.
In the case of Nazi Germany emotions run even higher, though by no means among Americans generally. Holocaust historians and activists often minimize the numbers killed in Dresden in what can only be described as "denial." Historians who suggest higher figures for those murdered by the firestorm are often denounced as neo-Nazi, or as revisionists. James Bacque wrote two highly controversial books, Other Losses and Crimes and Mercies in which he describes an Allied policy of starvation that resulted in the deaths of millions. Both were widely denounced in major reviews. The topic however will not go away. Alfred M. De Zayas has written several books which address what he describes as "the ethnic cleansing of the east-European German." Another more recent title that addressed this subject was After the Reich by Giles MacDonogh which was reviewed in Inconvenient History Vol. 1, No. 1.
In fact, his article is an indirect response to the revisionist arguments, especially with regard to supplies of coke to the crematoria of Auschwitz-Birkenau; it is an indirect response to such an extent that the revisionist arguments are never explicitly mentioned.
The late Holocaust historian Raul Hilberg also noted that the idea of a God-man is anathema to Judaism. This Jewish intellectual's view of Christian origins is much more accurate than Heschel's: "In the very early stages of the Christian faith, many Jews regarded Christians as members of a Jewish sect. The first Christians, after all, still observed the Jewish law. They had merely added a few nonessential practices, such as baptism, to their religious faith. But their view was changed abruptly when Christ was elevated to Godhood. The Jews have only one God. This God is indivisible. He is a jealous God and admits of no other gods. He is not Christ, and Christ is not He. Christianity and Judaism have since been irreconcilable. An acceptance of Christianity has since signified an abandonment of Judaism."[66]
Lord Halifax secretly circulated rumors both at home and abroad which presented the foreign policy of Hitler in the worst possible light. On January 24, 1939, Halifax sent a message to President Roosevelt in which he claimed to have received “a large number of reports from various reliable sources which throw a most disquieting light on Hitler’s mood and intentions.” Halifax claimed that Hitler had recently planned to establish an independent (of the Soviet Union) Ukraine, and that Hitler intended to destroy the Western nations in a surprise attack before he moved against the East. Halifax further claimed that not only British intelligence, but also “highly placed Germans who are anxious to prevent this crime” had furnished evidence of this evil conspiracy. These claims were all lies. Hitler did not have the remotest intention at the time of attacking in the East or any Western country.[5]
Kues noted that ‘the only existing testimonial evidence consists of a few vague statements of dubious value from former Ukrainian auxiliaries made behind the Iron Curtain. Not one of the surviving Sobibor inmates has placed Demjanjuk at Sobibor.’ Furthermore, the only piece of documentary evidence supporting the presence of Demjanjuk at Sobibor was the suspect ID card from the SS training camp at Trawniki, whose counterfeit nature had been exposed in the Israeli trials. A month before the sentence was passed on Demjanjuk a formerly classified FBI report had surfaced which stated that the card was ‘quite likely fabricated’ by the Soviet Union. There exists a very strong presumption that the OSI held this information before the denaturalisation hearing that enabled Demjanjuk to be deported to Israel!
Tauber’s testimony becomes even more afactual when he says that the Birkenau crematories were shut down in 1944 because cremation trenches are more-efficient than crematories. Tauber testified: “It was realized that the pits burned the corpses better (than the furnaces), so the Krematorien closed down one after the other after the pits came into operation.”[7] Germar Rudolf comments on Tauber’s testimony: “As for trench burning in comparison to cremation, the energy loss through radiation and convection, along with the problem of incomplete burning, is so gigantic that further commentary is really not needed.”[8]
[27] Segev, Tom, The Seventh Million: The Israelis and the Holocaust, New York: Hill and Wang, 1993, p. 399.
Malkin, however, uses the Magic decodes as such to argue for the necessity of the deportations, claiming that Roosevelt’s awareness of the decodes persuaded him to promote the internment. She also uses ignorance of the Magic decodes to explain away the impressive number of highly placed officials who objected to the internment overall: including J. Edgar Hoover, director of the FBI, and Attorney General Francis Biddle, who would go on to be the lead American judge at the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg.
The orthodox Holocaust narrative is largely based on anecdotal evidence. If that narrative claims to be backed up by scholarly research, it needs to allow, even welcome the critical evaluation of oral claims made. Errors, exaggerations and lies by witnesses are the daily bread of every oral historian, and one of the duties of a scholar active in that field is to separate the wheat from the chaff. Although using potentially offending words to describe the lack of accuracy and reliability of a witness should be avoided as much as possible in order to maintain a detached, objective, scholarly attitude, there are sometimes clear-cut cases of lying where it must be allowed to call a spade a spade without running afoul of the thought police. Because let’s face it: people do lie all the time. As a matter of fact, learning how to lie and how to deal with lies and liars is a very important skill children must learn in order to succeed in human societies.[10] Research has shown that we lie all the time, in particular to ourselves.[11] So, as a Holocaust revisionist, I may rightly ask: why should Jews be the only exception to the rule, in particular when it comes to a topic where so much is at stake for them? At the end of it, the proof lies in the pudding.
The chief pursuer of Charles Zentai is Dr Efraim Zuroff, director of the Jerusalem-based Simon Wiesenthal Centre. He provided a summary of the case against Zentai in 2007.[13] Zuroff explained that the Centre had launched ‘Operation Last Chance’, a final attempt to bring Nazi war criminals to justice, in Hungary on 13 July 2004. Zuroff explained how this project, which included the offering of money for information, brought attention to Zentai: ‘Local Holocaust scholar Laszlo Karsai sent me a letter from Adam Balazs, an elderly Holocaust survivor living in Budapest, with about two dozen yellowing pages that clearly were copies of witness statements from 1948. According to Karsai’s cover letter, Adam Balazs had “a lot of first-hand documents proving that his brother Peter Balazs was killed by Karoly [later Charles] Zentai.
[28] Wear, John, “Jewish Survivors of Auschwitz-Birkenau,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 10, No. 2, 2018 at https://www.inconvenienthistory.com/10/2/5482.
I must point out here that no witness and no historian has ever claimed that Treblinka II had dry kilns, and repeat the fact that there exists no evidence whatsoever, whether documentary or testimonial, for transports of firewood to the camp. If the trees felled around Treblinka were indeed seasoned, then the method used would have been air-drying. According to Glazar trees were “sawn and split” and stacked in “mounds”. But would it really have mattered much if the wood was left to dry, or if it was used more or less directly? An old agricultural article has the following to say on the use of green wood as fuel:
Initially then, the idea of the British Mandate was for the Jewish population already in the region, together with Jewish immigrants from Europe, to become part of a Palestinian state in which both Arabs and Jews would coexist. This vision met with agreement from both sides. By 1948 however, following the events of the war and repeated agitation from Zionist leaders like Weizmann, who apparently found the idea of living alongside Arabs distasteful, and the withdrawal of the British who were suffering from attacks on their troops from both sides, this had become a two state solution. The representatives of the Palestinian people did not agree to this partition of their territory and this resulted in the Israeli war of independence, in which the new state of Israel occupied even more of the region than had been originally proposed. During the occupation of this territory, the Palestinian communities of the area simply disappeared, either killed or forcibly ejected from their homes and turned into refugees. Norman Finkelstein described this process as one of ethnic cleansing and stated that it was not a matter that could be under dispute ‘the scholarly debate now focused on the much narrower, if still highly pertinent question of whether this cleansing was the intentional consequence of Zionist policy or the unintentional by-product of war.’[14] Bearing in mind that what is being described is an occupying power murdering and mistreating civilians, it would seem that Finkelstein is outlining something similar to the ‘intentionalism v functionalism’ debate which for many years dominated academic discourse about the Holocaust. Add to this the numerous allegations of torture and mistreatment of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli hands and Israel’s brutal put-downs of Palestinian uprisings, where youths throwing stones are met with machine guns and tanks, and it can be seen that the victims of Nazi evil, just like its conquerors, are more than prepared to create their own atrocities, to act aggressively and to commit violations of human rights when it suits them.
“The creation of Israel was the only possible and the only correct reaction to Auschwitz. There had to be a country in the world where the Jews were the landlords instead of tolerated guests, a place of refuge in the truest meaning of the word, even for Jews who live in other countries.”
We begin with the Holocaust-denial laws so popular in Europe, which make it illegal to question the orthodox storyline. Leading the inquisition is, not surprisingly, Germany, which has fined and/or imprisoned dozens, if not hundreds, of heretics. As one wag put it, “Today’s leaders of Germany want to prove they’re not the sort of Germans who lock people up for writing books by locking people up for writing books.” And what do the German authorities do with the books written by convicted Holocaust deniers? They burn them (Welcome to the Dark Ages!).2
Even as late as 2003, there was an official sign there stating: “GAS CHAMBER: disguised as a ‘shower room’—never used as a gas chamber.” Today there is one wall sign that says, “This was the center of potential (!) mass murder.” Another sign states that the chamber “was not used for mass murder. Survivors have testified that the SS did, however, murder individual prisoners and small groups here using poison gas.”[12] Evidently the story of a ‘homicidal gas chamber’ must be maintained at all costs.
Next, let’s turn to diesel gas chambers. In her first chapter, Dr. Lipstadt relates the controversy surrounding a statement made by U.S. journalist Pat Buchanan about the possibility of committing mass murder with diesel-engine exhaust, a method claimed for the so-called extermination camps at Treblinka and Belzec. Stop the video to read what she wrote about it.
Others have gone on to assert a causal connection. Paul Johnson maintains that important elements of the Soviet forced-labor camps system were copied by the Nazis, and posits a link between the Ukrainian famine and the Holocaust:
Currently, the US Holocaust Museum itself admits, quote:[17]
On October 2nd, after reading Ellwood’s report, Tesch’s interrogation, and a report (presumably Sehm’s) on the confrontation between Sehm and Tesch,[26] Group Captain A.G. Somerhough wrote that he was “by no means satisfied that [Tesch] was not well aware of the purposes for which he was supplying this cyanide and that he did not only act as a technical advisor on the question of its use for the purpose of exterminating human beings.”[27] Because of Tesch’s connection to Sachsenhausen, Somerhough suggested handing him over to the Russians for interrogation “if they think they can get any more out of him, bearing in mind that they are in possession of some actual lethal chamber apparatus”,[28] proposed “to turn a War Crimes Investigation Team on to this case”,[29] and suggested that Tesch, Weinbacher, Drosihn, and twelve TESTA gassing technicians be arrested.[30]
“Given the preponderance of evidence from victims, bystanders, and perpetrators, […].” (p. 28)
Tesch elaborated on this point at his trial, noting that there was a greater infestation problem in the east than in the west,[121] and stating that among the reasons he was not astonished by the quantity of Zyklon supplied to Auschwitz was that “Upper Silesia was a much infested province of Germany, and because I experienced in Poland a sort of infestation with insects and vermin as I had not thought possible.”[122] When the prosecution expressed incredulity that Tesch should not have thought it strange to see Auschwitz order four times as much gas as Sachsenhausen over a certain period,[123] Tesch observed yet again that “one is a territory which is infected by vermin”. He explained that this was both general knowledge (“We knew that the whole of Poland and Upper Silesia were territories which were very badly infested”) and something he knew on the basis of his own experience.[124]
Dieckmann writes that 250 of the Jews who remained in Kaunas were transferred to the Pravieniškės camp; these Jews (with the exception of the abovementioned 2 escapees) were then supposedly shot on July 10, 1944 in connection with an evacuation to Tilsit; as evidence for this only eyewitness statements are provided, however.[153]
Peter Winter asks the question: “Is this the sort of ‘objective’ legal person who can be relied upon to produce evidence at a major trial?”[17] The fact that Ferencz threatened and humiliated his witness and reported as much to his superior officer indicates that he operated in a culture where such illegal methods were acceptable.[18] Any lawyer knows that such evidence is not admissible in a legitimate court of law.
In response I have written a study is a direct response to Setkiewicz’s arguments, objections and explanations, each of which I have analyzed individually and then as a whole. This book is currently being translated into English and is slated to appear under the title Auschwitz: Deliveries of Coke, Wood and Zyklon B—Neither Proof Nor Trace for the Holocaust later this year as Volume 40 of the prestigious series Holocaust Handbooks. Below is Chapter III of my response dealing directly with the issue of Zyklon B deliveries to the Auschwitz Camp.
These events led a hitherto unknown scholar to challenge the official taboo and mount a defense for Holocaust revisionism.  In early 1997, Samuel Crowell began his effort to demonstrate the legitimacy of revisionist doubt about the gas chambers.  His efforts produced The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes a book-length treatment of the origin and development of the gas chamber stories.  Until this publication by Nine Banded Books, Sherlock was only available in on-line versions and small Xeroxed copies printed from the on-line files.
The Technical Report contains a relatively detailed description of the operation of the gas chamber.[54] The poisonous liquid which evaporated in the apparatus is sometimes called ”prussic acid”, sometimes ”Zyklon A“. However, it is highly improbable that such exceedingly dangerous toxic liquids were actually used in fragile glass bottles, and the method described completely deviates from the state of the art of dealing with prussic acid which was usual at the time in Germany. Indeed, prussic acid was used on a large scale to eradicate vermin, but only in the form of the pesticide Zyklon B, where the acid was absorbed in gypsum pellets that slowly outgassed after the opening of the can.
Black also writes that by November 1939 “millions of Jews were now clearly earmarked for death by virtue of Hitler’s oppressive measures” (p. 200). However, Black’s bestselling and internationally acclaimed book provides no credible evidence to document the “Holocaust.”
Thanks to hints from the local populace, the mass graves of Katyn were discovered in February 1943 when the area was occupied by the Germans. Some three months later, in May 1943, mass graves dating from the Soviet period were found at three places near the Ukrainian city of Vinnitsa. In April 1943 the Germans began opening the Katyn graves; more than 4,000 corpses were exhumed before the action had to be interrupted because of the summer heat. Several commissions consisting of forensic experts, criminologists, journalists and politicians from neutral and German-controlled countries were invited to inspect the site of the massacre. Katyn was also visited by members of the Polish Red Cross, whereas the International Red Cross in Geneva had declined the German invitation under Allied pressure. The Wehrmacht took captured American, Canadian and British officers to Katyn so that they could witness the evidence of what had transpired there. The government of the Reich published the results of the investigations in a “White Book.”[3]
At the beginning of his tome, van Pelt quotes Jewish-Zionist theologian and “moral beacon” Elie Wiesel. He says that the alleged mass murder of Jews at Auschwitz “signifies… the failure of two thousand years of Christian civilization…”32 He is clearly referring to all European Christendom.
The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes: And Other Writings on the Holocaust, Revisionism, and Historical Understanding by Samuel Crowell, Nine Banded Books, Charleston, W. Va., 2011. 401pp. Indexed.
The local commissions then forwarded the results of their investigations to their superior, the ESC in Moscow. Based on the material received, the ESC then drafted a report about the respective camp. Many such reports were used as incriminating evidence at the Nuremberg trial, e.g. IMT document USSR-8 about Auschwitz and IMT document USSR-29 about Majdanek. Majdanek was the only camp any western journalists were invited to; the only journalist admitted to Auschwitz was the renowned Red Army reporter Boris Polevoi who subsequently wrote his well-known article about the “Death Factory”[8]. No journalists, neither Russian nor foreign, were admitted to the other concentration camps captured by Soviet forces.
The base of evidence on which the obelisk of Holocaust Studies has been constructed is entirely Allied generated. What is more, the primary sources of opinion and analysis regarding that evidence (and how it was gathered) are also entirely Allied generated. As a result the layers of secondary work that have been written since (with very few exceptions) have displayed only the Allied viewpoint, gaining strength with each wave of new ‘research’ due to its lack of challenge or counter-narrative, until it eventually became a grotesque caricature of itself as academics like Daniel Goldhagen projected their own points of view and refracted them through this giant, constructed prism of the Holocaust. If you could go back through time and approach Telford Taylor or Jackson, or Thomas Dodd at Nuremberg and ask for their thoughts on the Holocaust, they would have little idea what you were talking about. What we must face and accept is that the Holocaust has been fashioned since then.
Fifteen months ago, referring to the crisis that the historians of the “Holocaust” were experiencing, I wrote that there was “more and more water in their gas, and slack in their knotted rope.”8 Since January 2015 and the anniversary of the “liberation” of Auschwitz I have noted a sudden acceleration of the phenomenon. I have a whole file and a whole demonstration on the subject but the continuing judicial repression has not yet left me time to publish this information. In any case, for the historian, it has become captivating to observe the never-ending agony of the “magical gas chamber” (Céline in 1950). This agony is accompanied, as we have seen, by a redoubling of the repression of revisionism and a turning up of the volume of holocaustic propaganda. May our Picrochole refrain, then, from going on the stage and into a trance! He would have a stroke. He might even be cruelly snatched away from us. Who knows? He could precede in death a man who will be 87 years of age on 25 January 2016 and whom some have, thus far in vain, so often sought to kill, not for his ideas (he has hardly any) but for having wanted to publish the result of his research, which is summed up in a phrase of about sixty words. I repeat it here for the record, and to have done with it:
I explained repeatedly that I would not participate in a debate with a Holocaust denier. The existence of the Holocaust was not a matter of debate. (p. 1)
The reader may ask, does either writer consider the Holocaust allegation, as developed and defended, a conspiracy theory? Each is at best coy regarding this question. The founders of Holocaust revisionist scholarship have avoided casting the alleged Holocaust as the result of a conspiracy. Arthur Butz uses the word eight times in The Hoax of the Twentieth Century, each time in a context other than the Holocaust. Despite the massive academic, political, and judicial forces that have been deployed against him for forty years, Robert Faurisson doesn’t characterize the obligatory (in his country) version of the Holocaust as a conspiracy theory.
Today, revisionists find themselves in a world that is increasingly oppressive to their work. Anti-revisionist laws, far from achieving their stated purpose, now stifle free speech and expression and prevent a proper understanding of the Holocaust. In addition they attempt to control the thoughts of citizens through intimidation. Several revisionists sat in European prison cells including Germar Rudolf and Ernst Zündel. British historian, David Irving recently served out 400 days in solitary confinement in Austria for comments he made in 1989.
Robert J. van Pelt confronts us with a copious serving of materials which he has grouped according to the type of source – intentional, legal, accidental – but in the end all this fails to convince that van Pelt really has a case. It is one thing to fend off a plaintiff in a libel suit before an English court, but quite another to sum up the evidence in such a way that an unbiased public will accept the arguments.
According to the documents, not a single direct transport from the west arrived in Minsk during the whole period from December 1941 to May 1942. The possible counterargument that the luggage Rosenberg sorted might have come from Jews sent from Theresienstadt to nearby Maly Trostinec does not hold water, since the first of these transports (five in all) departed on 14 July 1942. Neither does there exist, as far as the author of this article is aware, any reports of Jewish transports arriving by train to Minsk from other parts of Ostland or the Ukraine during the period in question. This implies that if Rosenberg is correct, then the 23 unknown transports arrived to Minsk indirectly from the west via Chełmno or Auschwitz. Alas, Rosenberg does not tell his readers what he and his fellow workers read on the trunk labels!
Mark S. Smith’s Treblinka Survivor. The Life and Death of Hershl Sperling (The History Press, Stroud 2010) is an attempt to trace the life and fate of Hershl Sperling, a former inmate of Treblinka and Auschwitz-Birkenau (!) who committed suicide by drowning in Glasgow in 1989. The book mostly consists of interviews with Sperling’s son, psychological ruminations and descriptions of Smith’s travels in Sperling’s footsteps to Treblinka and other places in Poland and Germany, interspersed with rehashings from well-known exterminationist publications on the subject and excerpts from Sperling’s only testimony on Treblinka (he left none regarding his time at Auschwitz, to where he was sent in the autumn of 1943), a brief account simply entitled “Treblinka” which was published in 1947 in issue 6 of the obscure Yiddish-language journal Fun letzter Churbn ( Since the Recent Catastrophe ). Fortunately Smith presents a complete English translation of this testimony as an appendix to his book. This is pretty much the only part of the book which is of any real interest, however meager it is. Below I will briefly discuss the most interesting parts of it.
In 2009 German holocaust historian Petra Rentrop published a 14-page article in an anthology volume edited by Wolfgang Benz and Barbara Distel.[104] This article is primarily a rehash of information from Gerlach, the Arlt reports, two telegrams concerning “S-Wagons” (cf. §3.4 below) and material from the 1963 Koblenz trial. Rentrop accepts Gerlach's higher figure of 60,000 victims as plausible.
[30] Mattogno, Carlo, “The Truth about the Gas Chambers”?, Inconvenient History, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2010.
Many Jewish prisoners undoubtedly perished during or after their rail journey to the Aktion Reinhardt camps. It is also plausible that hundreds and perhaps thousands of Jews who were too weak or ill to continue the eastbound journey from the camps were killed by officials acting on their own authority. These prisoners were buried at the Aktion Reinhardt camps. However, there is no evidence that the Aktion Reinhardt camps were mass extermination centers in which anyone was systematically put to death.[26]
A serious flaw of this book is Berg's outdated and contradictory discussion of the infamous Auschwitz document containing the term "Vergasungskeller" (gassing cellar) in connection with Crematorium II. In his 1976 classic The Hoax of the Twentieth Century, Arthur Butz posited that this term referred to a basement where generator gas was produced from coke as fuel for the cremation furnaces. Butz later corrected that error after becoming familiar with the cremation furnaces' design, eventually settling for the hypothesis that this document referred to a basement that served as a "gas [protection] basement" as an auxiliary function (see the latest, 2015 edition of his book). On p. 128 of Berg's book, Butz's original, flawed interpretation is repeated, while on p. 115 Berg claims that this term refers to a delousing chamber. He bases this conclusion on his misinterpretation of an earlier Auschwitz document talking about large-scale delousing actions throughout the entire camp.
On the morning following Kramer's arrest, Sington drove into the SS compound and was surprised to see scores of healthy appearing female inmates thronging together, "gaily and smartly dressed, …talking in groups or carrying packages and blankets into or out of the huts."[26] Many of these women were young and robust Jewesses who had recently entered the camp from Auschwitz-Birkenau. The women were exuberant, as they had just looted the camp warehouses and SS storerooms during the night and early morning hours. A number of them were wearing SS uniforms.
Michael Salter, PhD, LLB, is professor at the University of Central Lancashire (since 2000). He has published over 40 refereed articles and four books, the most recent on the Holocaust and the Nuremberg Trials (Nijhoff 2009, 2 vols).
Greenblatt did not mention that “International Holocaust Remembrance Day” was declared only in 2005, which means that just two U.S. Presidents, Obama and the younger Bush, ever issued any statement on the matter. This was not a venerable old tradition that Trump violated.
Nothing of the kind in the English legal system, far more serious and severe, where one can know, word for word, what was said all throughout any past trial, be it that of the humblest citizen. And at least the latter will have been able to benefit from the presence of a jury. Douglas Christie was skilled in making this system actually provide the guarantees of fairness that it promised. He cared rather little for the judge whom, if necessary, he let know that his role ought to be more that of a referee. For the real barrister that he was, the only things that must count, at one end of the chain of procedure, were such sacred principles as that of full freedom of expression and the refusal to be intimidated and, at the other end, the jurors, always allowed, when the time came, to put questions and seek clarification. He shunned legal quibbling and, turning to the laymen, spoke to them in a language that was robust, direct and precise. He was captivating in his ability to provide a definition, or examples. He was impassive. He would have none of any showing-off. He liked the simple and concrete. He struck with his bold way of going straight to the burning heart of the matter to be dealt with. In common-law justice, chatter and theorizing are prohibited; there is no speech-giving and nearly everything is done by way of pointed and precise questions to be followed by answers as brief as possible. Lawyers and judges like facts and abhor the “emotional” (i.e. words or behavior liable to arouse emotion in one’s favor). As for the court-appointed expert, he is not, as is the case in France, recruited from a list of persons certified to be such but is rather one who, on the spot, after examination, cross-examination and re-examination before the judge and the jury, will have been able to demonstrate his experience, mastery of the subject and ability to make himself understood by the layman. I personally assisted Douglas Christie throughout the entire 1985 trial, and again for such part of the trial in 1988 as my health allowed. Our collaboration proved so successful that we managed, in 1985, to crush, in succession Raul Hilberg, Number One Historian of the “Destruction of the European Jews”, and Rudolf Vrba, Number One Witness of the alleged homicidal gassings at Auschwitz. The press at the time showed its surprise at the defense team’s high degree of preparation. Then, at the 1988 trial, the “Leuchter Report” on the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Majdanek, Auschwitz and Birkenau dealt the coup de grâce to the exterminationist case. On the strict level of science and history we had won all the victories that could be won but, of course, the mainstream media strengthened their Holocaust propaganda all the more. On the legal level, Ernst Zündel was provisionally guilty.
Q. Did you yourself supervise the extermination of vermin in Sachsenhausen?
The German authorities sought to confront the situation somehow. On 24 April 1943, SS-Brigadeführer Hans Kammler, head of the C group of offices (construction) of the WVHA, sent the Auschwitz Zentralbauleitung a letter bearing as its subject “KL-Auschwitz-Zigeunerlager” [Gypsy camp, Auschwitz Concentration Camp] in which he wrote:
On 16 May 1943, Bischoff sent Hans Kammler, Amtsgruppenschef C of the SS-WVHA, a "Report on measures taken to implement the special program ordered within the KGL [prisoner of war camp] Auschwitz by SS-Brigadeführer and Generalmajor der Waffen-SS Kammler, Doctor of Engineering" (Bericht über die getroffenen Massnahmen für die Durchführung des durch SS-Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen-SS Dr. Ing. Kammler angeordneten Sonderprogrammes im KGL. Auschwitz) in which, at Item 6, we read:
The great deal of material he presents about the crimes against German civilians by Poles and Czechs seems to lack any knowledge of John Sack's work An Eye for an Eye. Sack pointed out that many 'Jewish avengers' who ran the concentration camps filled with German civilians after the war, in which beatings, torture, murder, etc. were routine, used Polish, Czech, etc. names to hide their own ethnicity and/or misattribute it to that of others. MacDonogh seems to be wholly unaware of this aspect.
John Demjanjuk is dead. The Age, Melbourne’s more intellectual daily newspaper, reported this on 19th March under the prejudicial and ambiguous heading ‘Nazi camp guard dead.’ Quoting the Washington Post, the newspaper referred to Demjanjuk as ‘the target of a decades-long international effort to prove that he participated in genocide as a guard at Nazi prison camps’. The report summarised the legal history of cases against him and noted that he was finally charged in Germany ‘with 27, 900 counts of being an accessory to murder as a prison guard at Sobibor’, one of the alleged Nazi ‘death camps’. In May 2011 Demjanjuk was found guilty and sentenced to five years in prison. There is no suggestion in this report by The Age that anything was amiss in the treatment of this man by the USA, Israel or Germany, although it is noted that he maintained ‘that war-crime accusations against him were a matter of mistaken identity.’
They inspected the camp of Auschwitz, its factories and farms and remained for approximately 3-4 hours.
A controversy was ignited in the United States in August 2007 when the ADL voiced its opposition to a Congressional resolution put forward by Representative Adam Schiff of California to officially recognize the Armenian genocide. The ADL had consistently lobbied against adoption of the resolution.
It is upon those gruesome records that the foundation of The Holocaust today rests. One dimension of gruesomeness is to be seen on the pages, in the form of the lurid tales of gassings and shootings, deportations and selections, burials and exhumations, cremations and forced marches, in sum far exceeding all dimensions of credibility and even physical possibility.
Yet more evidence comes from the extensive diary of Joseph Goebbels. Between May 1937 and the end of the war, he made 123 entries on Jews and the Jewish question.[17] In describing Nazi policy toward them, the most commonly used words are evakuieren (to evacuate), abgeschoben/abschieben (to expel or deport), aus-heraus (to move out), liquidieren (to liquidate, to get rid of), ausrotten, and vernichten. Notably absent are graphic and explicit words such as töten (to kill), ermorden (to murder), erschiessen (to shoot), and vergasen (to gas). And it is not only the individual words; the entire context of his passages on the Jews involves nothing but extended discussion of their removal, deportation, evacuation, and the like. Would Goebbels lie to himself, or use code words or euphemisms in his own private diary? Obviously not. When he said “evacuation” or “deportation,” that’s clearly what he meant. Nor did he mean deportation to any homicidal gas chambers; no such thing is mentioned in his lengthy writings.[18] Nazi intention was clear: the Jews would be packed up and shipped out, to the East, to the newly captured areas of western Russia, and there they would be dumped—to survive as best they could.
“It was the year of 1989. Suddenly within a week two ’hostages’ had died, and the number of survivors from the Auschwitz and Birkenau camps was shrinking fast. At the same time, I was reading and hearing more and more about disputes on the number of the victims of the genocide of the Jews, and even on the events themselves. It became an obsession to me that I had to, as they were still alive, write down their testimonies. Nobody had ’talked’ by then; nobody wanted to open the ’box’ of his most terrible memories, which he had buried so deeply. And yet, while there are still those few survivors, others dare to dispute the undeniable facts of those times.” (p. 7)
I first became aware of Bradley in the late ‘80s.  I had discovered him a couple of years after my introduction to Holocaust revisionism.  I knew of him through his book, Confessions of a Holocaust Revisionist and the work that he did for the Institute for Historical Review.
In 1988, the Canadian government put Ernst Zündel on trial a second time for the criminal offense of knowingly disseminating false news about “the Holocaust.” As part of his defense in this trial, Zündel commissioned the U.S. gas-chamber expert Fred Leuchter to make a scientific examination of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek. The resulting Leuchter Report is the first scientific study of the alleged German homicidal gas chambers.[3]
The capacity pertaining to Crematorium III, considering that the total number of muffles was 46, 15 of which were located in this crematorium, amounted to ([20.000 ÷ 46] x 15) approximately 6,500 bodies in 24 hours.
This fantastic immediate cremation meant that, in all the crematoria at Birkenau, it was possible to cremate "almost 20,000 men [sic] a day"![210]
If the Pook-less Sehm statement is identical with “Sehm’s statement as amended by this office”, then the amendation was done prior to taking a statement from Pook, presumably having been performed in order to conceal Pook’s existence from the defense, since at the time his evidence remained a wild card. If the Pook-less Sehm statement is not identical with “Sehm’s statement as amended by this office”, then the latter was either for some reason not preserved in the Tesch trial files, or is nothing other than the standard version of Sehm’s statement, the true original not having been preserved. Whichever of these options one prefers, it’s clear that a great deal of document manipulation went on in the preparation for the Tesch trial.
Traditional historians claim to know about this crime in great detail. They have documents, photographs, and hard evidence. They have incriminating testimony from key Nazis. Some of the gas chambers have survived. And they have innumerable Jewish eyewitnesses. According to some, it is the “most well-documented event in history.”[1]
Neil Brown QC suggested that “if we really want community standards to prevail, we should have trial by jury, so these contentious issues can be resolved by the only body really qualified to do so: twelve good men and women. After all, if the purpose of such legislation is to protect the community from racist conduct, why not ask the community, in the form of a jury, if it thinks it needs to be protected from the conduct complained of?”[53] Noted American Jewish legal expert and activist Alan Dershowitz warned “democracy cannot survive a regime of governmental censorship.”[54] Another Jew, a survivor from World War Two, Professor John Furedy, also issued a warning – against what he saw as a dangerous trend towards tyranny and argued that even “Holocaust deniers” should not be censored.[55] Former Prime Minister John Howard supported the reforms.[56] Michael Sexton SC pointed out that Sections 18C and 18D are much harder on a defendant than the corresponding clauses in defamation law, particularly as Section 18C is not concerned with truth or falsity. Thus “it is much likelier to be used… to attack controversial pieces of journalism or historical writing.”[57] One Gabrielle Lord expressed surprise at “the lack of voices from the literary world” in support of reform and argued that “freedom is the essential condition from which creativity unfolds and flourishes.”[58] Tim Wilson observed (in contrast to those who claimed that Andrew Bolt had vastly greater resources than those he attacked) that “censorship favors the powerful because they can use and abuse it to advance their ends, and also favors those with resources to use the court system to silence and censor others. It is a common criticism of Australia’s generous defamation law – it favors the rich from criticism.”[59] Barry Cohen, a former ALP minister and a Jew, insisted that “racist ideas are more effectively countered in debate, rather than in court or jail”.[60] Janet Albrechtsen, a political columnist with The Australian, discussed the change-of-heart of Canadian Alan Borovoy, who once supported legislation like section 18C but is now a disbeliever, as well as the experience of Mark Steyn, who fought the censors, and noted: “Debate in this country has become polarized between those on the Right who regard the individual right to free speech as more important than identity group rights and those on the political Left who cannot bring themselves to genuinely commit to free speech of opponents.”[61]
With the renewed interest in Deborah Lipstadt due to the release of the film Denial, we have chosen to include this article by the late Bradley R. Smith. Smith comments extensively about Lipstadt’s anti-revisionist book, Denying the Holocaust and especially the vitriol that Lipstadt unleashed on him for his work to introduce college students to revisionism. Smith included this article in The Revisionist Campus Edition in 2000. The article later served as Chapter One of his book, Break His Bones: The Private Life of a Holocaust Revisionist.
Indeed, for example in 1944, the German Foreign Ministry (headed by Joachim von Ribbentrop) informed the British government that Germany was ready to hand over 5,000 “non-Aryan” persons – of whom 85% would be children and the other 15% adults accompanying them – from Poland, Lithuania and Latvia, but on condition of receiving the guarantee that they would be hosted till the end of the war in the British Empire (for example in Canada), barring Palestine and the rest of the Middle East. “The Reich Government cannot lend itself to taking part in a manoeuvre that would tend to let the Jews chase the noble and valiant Arab people from their homeland, Palestine” (Nuremberg document NG-1794, Eberhardt von Thadden, on 29 April and 5 May 1944; Wagner, July 29, 1944. Henri Monneray, former deputy prosecutor at the International Military Tribunal, La persécution des juifs dans les pays de l’Est présentée à Nuremberg, Paris, Editions du Centre de documentation juive contemporaine, 1949, p. 168-169).
Upon receiving the reports of the various working groups, Lt. Colonel A. Sharitch produced the final version[10], whereupon he probably forwarded the entire body of material to his superiors. The ESC in Moscow then began drafting an official report about Sachsenhausen. The respective drafts and the correspondence about this subject are now bound in a brown Portfolio made of imitation leather[11] so they stand out amid the mass of “ordinary” Sachsenhausen material at GARF where the author of this article discovered them several years ago. The documents supply no information about the origin of the drafts. The Soviet administration did not normally use official stationery with a pre-printed letterhead, as was common practice in Germany, Britain, and other countries. In the specific case discussed here this may have been due to the fact that the sender and the addressee were residing in the same building, the house of the Sovnarkom (Council of People’s Commissars). Most drafts lack any reference to the author and the date and bear no signature. Only rarely do the documents bear a handwritten date, and even in these cases it is not clear what the date refers to. Sometimes we find a register number, which is rather difficult to interpret owing to our ignorance of the system used. The handwritten, continuous pagination of the archives only adds to the confusion because it does not square with the chronology of the events. In other words, for the researcher this Portfolio is a real nightmare. The chaos is probably due to the fact that in 1951, after the dissolution of the archives of the ESC, the material was handed over to the Central Archives of the October Revolution (now GARF) without previous rationalization.
Despite these statements there exists no certain evidence concerning the number of people actually murdered. The abovementioned total figure may be put into doubt. Perhaps it is speculation. Just like all other figures. However, as long as there is no other evidence available [pointing to a different figure] one must accept the figure reported by the commission.”[100]
The process began with informing the first-round accuseds (they were never called defendants) of at least generalities of the charges against them. Then they were invited (and occasionally tricked, in sham "trials" that lacked even the empty legitimacy of the "real" proceedings that followed) to respond to the charges. Denial that the crimes with which they were charged had even been committed rapidly became known to all as the sure route to a speedy conviction, and was quickly abandoned by even those who felt they could, in any truly evidence-based proceeding, accomplish the formidable feat of "proving that something did not happen." Such, in fact, remains the fate typically meted out even today to anyone who, no matter how credibly or reasonably, dares to question any aspect of the approved scenario known as "The Holocaust." The factuality that the "crimes" had been committed was, in fact, explicitly declared as unchallengeable by the tribunal; thus, to deny them meant accusing the court of imposing a lie as the truth—hardly a tactic to be employed in hopes of gaining leniency.
“Buchenwald war die Heimat von Ilse Koch, Frau des Kommandanten. Sie war bekannt als die Hündin von Buchenwald. eine Beleidigung für jeden Hund, der je gelebt hat. Sie ließ ihre Insassen mit verschiedenen Motiven tätowieren, ließ sie dann töten, dann häuten und ihre Häute gerben, um daraus Buchumschläge, Lampenschirme und andere Gegenstände herzustellen. Ich habe diese Dinge gesehen! Eine Geschichte erzählt, dass sie Geschlechtsverkehr mit ihren Opfern genoss – das mag zweifelhaft sein. Diese ‘Fleischhaken’ wurden an den Körpern von Menschen eingesetzt!”
The defendants did not receive a fair and impartial hearing in the Dachau trials. The use of interrogation methods designed to produce false confessions, lax rules of evidence and procedure, the presumption that the defendants were guilty unless proven innocent, American military judges with little or no legal training, unreliable eyewitness testimony, and the inability of defense counsel to aggressively cross-examine some of the prosecution witnesses ensured the conviction of most of the defendants in the Dachau trials.
Commandant in Auschwitz: Rudolf Höss, His Torture and His Forced Confessions. Carlo Mattogno and Rudolf Höss, English translation by Germar Rudolf. Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield, U.K, 2017, trade paperback, 402 pp.
On March 19, 1946, the Berliner Zeitung carried the front-page headline: “The man who gassed two million people” (“Der Mann, der zwei Millionen Menschen vergaste”). That news item, dated March 18, came from an “American news agency” and stated: “During an interrogation, Hoess confessed to have gassed some two million people at Auschwitz.”
June 13. Swiss newspaper Basler Nachrichten carries as its headline “How high is the number of Jewish victims?” (Wie hoch ist die Zahl der jüdischen Opfer?). Quoting official statistics on the Jewish populations of Europe, the article argues that the number of Jewish victims could not exceed 3 million, and most likely amounts to less than 1.5 million. The unnamed writer of the article puts the term “extermination of the Jews” within quotation brackets, implying skepticism towards the allegations of a systematic extermination of European Jewry, but does not discuss the gas chamber issue.[14]
“Finally, the court rejected all motions with the terse—and for some anti-fascists in the audience shocking—reason that it is completely irrelevant whether the Holocaust happened or not. Denying it is subject to punishment in Germany. And that is all that counts in court. ‘Democracy must be able to handle this,’ a law student lectured later in the lobby of the courthouse.”
Even if it is authentic and accurately translated, it does not necessarily support the view that exterminations of Jews were taking place at Sobibor. There is a non-criminal interpretation one could give to the document. As Holocaust historian Gerald Reitlinger pointed out in his The Final Solution: The Attempt to Exterminate the Jews of Europe, SS leader Himmler told a representative of the World Jewish Congress toward the end of the war: “In order to put a stop to the epidemics we were forced to burn the bodies of incalculable numbers of people who had been destroyed by disease. We were therefore forced to build crematoria, and on this account they are knotting a noose for us.”[101 ]
“In consideration of the fact that the Hitlerites not only annihilated prisoners of the [Sachsenhausen] camp, but that transports with prisoners from other concentration camps arrived there – from Majdanek, Auschwitz, Buchenwald, Dachau, Mauthausen, Ravensbrück etc. as well as from various European countries occupied by the Germans – the Hitlerite henchmen could cremate 924,480 people at the [Sachsenhausen] camp, as results from the Technical Expertise.”
In July 1990, the Polish government's Auschwitz State Museum, along with Israel's Yad Vashem Holocaust center, conceded that the four million figure was a gross exaggeration, and references to it were accordingly removed from the Auschwitz monument. Israeli and Polish officials announced a tentative revised toll of at least 1.1 million dead, about 90 percent being Jews from almost every country in Europe.[13]
The witness Stanislav furthermore declared that the execution of "thousands of Jews" at Busk lasted "for over a week" in May 1943, and that there were "approximately ten graves" in the Jewish cemeteries (pp. 223-224). Ignoring the number of alleged victims and graves, his assertion that "the executions lasted over a week" is in flagrant contradiction with the Holocaust claim that the executions occurred on 21 May 1943,[51] which is hard to reconcile with either the numbers or dimensions of the graves, eight of which have a total estimated surface area of approximately 100 square meters, on average little more than 12 square meters each. Why would the Germans have bothered digging so many small graves if they needed to shoot over 1,700 people total?
With the newly fortified anti-revisionist laws passed in the autumn of 1994, Rudolf found himself dragged before the German legal system in a trial that lasted from late 1994 to mid-1995. As his trial was beginning, Rudolf had prepared yet another book for publication. Due to his current situation with the German courts, Rudolf decided to publish this new work, Grundlagen zur Zeitgeschichte (published in English as 'Dissecting the Holocaust') under a new pseudonym, Ernst Gauss. During the trial, German police raided Rudolf's home and found yet another work, the nearly complete, Auschwitz: Nackte Fakten (Auschwitz: Plain Facts) on his computer.[26] In Auschwitz: Nackte Fakten, Rudolf once again used two now-familiar pen names, Ernst Gauss and Manfred Köhler.
Since then, the German Code of Criminal Procedure has been revised several times, but in this regard, nothing has happened. Quite the contrary. Because some defense attorneys challenged the omnipotence of German judges and filed uncomfortable motions to introduce evidence, a section was slipped in in 1994 that empowers the court to gag the defense attorneys as they see fit—with the exception of the closing argument. Here is the text of the scandalous Section 257a:[10]
The second order is a radio message of 29 July 1942 containing a number of typos. It granted “the travel permit by truck from Auschwitz to Dessau to pick up gas which is urgently needed to disinfect the camp” (“die Fahrtgenehmigung mit dem LKW von Auschwitz nach Dessau zur Abholung von Gas, daß [sic] zur desinfizierung [sic] des Lagers dringendst erforderlich ist”).[8]
Although Czech, in her entry for July 17, has Himmler attend a mass gassing of 499 deportees from the Netherlands on that day, an inspection of Himmler’s diary shows that he never went to Birkenau at all. Since that camp was the hotbed of typhus and other infectious diseases – unsurprisingly, since at that time it was still under construction and lacked any proper sanitary facilities – it would have been highly dangerous for him to go there. That he in fact did not go there also results from the fact that Rudolf Höss’s claim of Himmler having attended the entire procedure – from unloading the transport train until the clearing of the victims’ bodies from the gas chambers[13] – cannot be true, because the train from the Netherlands arrived at Auschwitz already in the evening of July 16, and the newly admitted inmates showed up in the camp’s record already during the morning roll call of July 17. Himmler, however, arrived at Kattowitz Airport only at 3:15 pm on July 17, but did not get to the camp itself before late afternoon.[14] Considering that the primary source upon which the tale of Himmler’s attendance of a gassing rests is none other than Rudolf Höss’s postwar fairy tales, the entire episode can be dismissed safely as just another myth cooked up by Höss in an attempt to directly implicate Himmler in what supposedly transpired at Auschwitz under Höss’s command.
In Vienna, in that summer of 1914, the prevalent mood was much less Belgrade's celebration of the deed than Churchill's angry contempt. This atrocity was the sixth in less than four years and strong evidence of the worsening Serbian danger, leading the Austrians to conclude that the continued existence of an expansionist Serbia posed an unacceptable threat to the Habsburg monarchy. An ultimatum would be drawn up containing demands that Serbia would be compelled to reject, giving Austria an excuse to attack. In the end, Serbia would be destroyed, probably divided up among its neighbors (Austria, which did not care to have more disaffected South Slavs as subjects, would most likely abstain from the partition). Obviously, Russia might choose to intervene. However, this was a risk the Austrians were prepared to take, especially after they received a "blank check" from Kaiser Wilhelm to proceed with whatever measures they thought necessary. In the past, German support of Austria had forced the Russians to back down.
Unhappily, today, poisoned by “Holocaust” propaganda, the minds of too many people are not inclined to call their beliefs into question. The “Shoah” has become a religious superstition inspiring reverence or fear. Conscious of its own fragility and of the precarious position of the State of Israel, of which it is the sword and the shield, this religion has erected formidable defensive walls and severely punishes those who try to stand up against it. In the past, in order to be a truly active revisionist it took courage and sacrifices; in future, it will take the heroism of Antigone and singular self-abnegation to remain a revisionist.
Terry does not bother to explain what exactly is pseudoscientific about focusing on physical evidence. Furthermore, the Leuchter Report, aside from some deficiencies, remains in principle unrefuted, as well as the Rudolf Report.
Another was the Wotenist and runic mysticism of Guido Von List, likewise without influence on Hitler. While Rudolf von Sebottendorff, founder of the Thule Society, was influenced by both Lanz and von List, the influence of Thule on the foundation of the NSDAP has been exaggerated. Sebottendorff was gone from the scene by 1919. “There no evidence Hitler ever attended the Thule Society,” states Goodrick-Clarke, “and such theorists were increasingly marginalized well before the party assumed power.” Furthermore, occult societies were prohibited in the Third Reich, including those with a racial foundation.[16]
This piece does not constitute a record of the debate on the question of the Nazi gas chambers. It is merely intended for the layman who would like to know the circumstances in which Le Monde, in 1978, came to give me the chance to express myself on that subject, and to have an idea of what has followed over the 34 years since.
Of what was the gas chamber constructed? Surprisingly, in the book Venezia does not describe it at all: he indicates neither the dimensions, nor its location within the building, how it was accessed, how it was rigged out on the inside, whether it was divided into two areas (as stated by H. Tauber) or whether it consisted of one single room (as declared by M. Nyiszli).
Stephen F. Pinter served as a U.S. Army prosecuting attorney stationed in Germany after the war. Pinter disputed the claim that millions of Jews were murdered by Germany. In a statement made in 1959, he wrote: “From what I was able to determine during six postwar years in Germany and Austria, there were a number of Jews killed, but the figure of a million was certainly never reached. I interviewed thousands of Jews, former inmates of concentration camps in Germany and Austria, and consider myself as well qualified as any man on this subject.”[21]
Czerniaków's diary entry from 23 April 1942 states that 1,000 Czech Jews arrived in Warsaw that day.[24] Thus it is possible that both German and Czech Jews were among the 30 people sent to Treblinka on 23 May (Czerniaków does not mention the nationality of these Jews). Were these Jews sent to Treblinka in order to work on the construction of the Treblinka II camp? Regardless of which, it is clear that the Germans in charge of building Treblinka II did not consider these Jews to be carriers of a terrible state secret, for otherwise they would surely not have let them live and sent them to the Treblinka labor camp, where they could easily pass on this “knowledge” at the camp latrine – which fittingly was the gossip exchange of choice[25] – to Polish inmates who, as mentioned, were often released after two to three months. How many inmates died in the Treblinka II camp during its construction phase will likely remain unknown, but there does not exist the slightest evidence that mass murders were taking place at that time, and certainly not mass death on a scale that would be sufficient to trigger rumors about a death camp. Again, if that had been the case, why let Jews from the construction work force be transferred to the labor camp?
That this ad hoc hypothesis is merely a far-fetched assumption is easily demonstrated by reference to a very few simple considerations. How was the Reichsführer SS supposed to know how the “Final Solution to the Jewish Question" was progressing unless the commandant of Auschwitz regularly reported the fate of each individual incoming transport? It goes without saying that Himmler had to be informed of the numbers of inmates arriving at Auschwitz, being transferred to other concentration camps or being killed in the gas chambers. The SS Head Business Administration Office [SS-Wirtschaft-Verwaltungshauptamt] must have insisted upon exact statistics as well. Since it was responsible for all concentration camps, it would have needed to be informed, not only of the number of able-bodied, working inmates, but the number of unregistered, non-able-bodied inmates as well, even if only to justify the quantities of Zyklon B requested for the gas chambers as well as for the requested quantities of coke for the crematoria.
Bearing in mind what also happened to German civilians and POWs under Allied occupation, post war, and indeed the many other examples of genocide from ancient to recent history, the question to ask is what makes the Nazi treatment of Jews ‘unique’? And I am aware that this is not an original question. The ‘uniqueness’ of the Holocaust is an issue addressed by Marrus, Finkelstein, Davidowicz and virtually every writer who has written about it. Often we are told that its ‘uniqueness’ lies in the fact that a single group of people were chosen for extermination, based on nothing other than their ethnicity. But such statements are questionable in some aspects and demonstrably false in others. Firstly we are faced with the problem that History is yet to deliver definitive evidence regarding the decision to exterminate. The Führerbefehl (Hitler order) simply does not exist.[33] Even extreme intentionalists like Lucy Davidowicz admit so, saying, ‘Though the abundant documents of the German dictatorship have yielded no written order by Hitler to murder the Jews, it appears from the events as we know them now, that the decision for the practical implementation of the plan to kill the Jews was probably reached after December 18, 1940 – when Hitler issued the first directive for Operation Barbarossa – and before March 1, 1941.’[34] It is worth noting here that Davidowicz’ estimates would perhaps tie in with the date given by Ohlendorf and the one originally provided by Höss (which many historians have since claimed to be a mistake) but not the one provided by Wisliceny.
So where is the proof that CODOH – and in extension Holocaust revisionism in general – is spreading hateful messages? And if they do, what sets their messages apart from what Elie Wiesel used to spread, or from what the ADL and the WJC are spreading? To find an answer to this, we need to first define how to detect hate speech. To do this, we need to first define what hate speech is. There are several ways of defining it, and here are some of them:
The Holocaust, then, perceived as chiefly the result of the Germans’ desperate, doomed effort to save their homeland, may be seen to have ensued, in its most-lethal and cruelest phases, from the position the government and people of Germany found themselves in as a consequence of Unconditional Surrender, and this takes no account of those many in countries to the east of Germany who clearly saw the Soviet behemoth descending on their own homelands as a wolf, as it were, in “liberators’” clothing.
Public condoning for a racist or xenophobic purpose of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal court;
Another credible eyewitness is the Austrian-born Canadian Maria Van Herwaarden, who was interned at Birkenau starting in 1942. Van Herwaarden testified at the 1988 Ernst Zündel trial that she saw nothing at Birkenau that resembled mass murder. She did testify, however, that many of the inmates at Birkenau died of typhus and some inmates committed suicide.[27] No prosecution witnesses were called during this trial because the prosecution knew of no survivors who could withstand cross examination by Zündel’s defense attorney.
For this “compelling evidence” Salter refers us to Evans, Lipstadt, van Pelt, Pressac, Rees and Shermer/Grobman. Unfortunately for Salter, not only have all of the above authors’ arguments been refuted, but some of them also have been proven to be liars and falsifiers. Perhaps this is why this accursed denial persists?
The small freight elevator (Aufzug) located in the vestibule of the subterranean part of the crematorium is transformed, in Nyiszli’s narrative, into four powerful lifts.
In other words, the more deaths, the more money. And the more deaths, the more notoriety. Which, based on the pretense that indicating the location of a few alleged mass graves [on a map] is equivalent to "the discovery of mass graves" and, therefore, proof of mass murder. Desbois vividly describes his public appearances exhibiting his "discoveries." He appeared "before representatives from the Claims Conference" at New York (p. 122) and at the Holocaust Museum at Washington, D.C. (p. 123). In this regard, very modestly, he comments:
Kounio was deported to Auschwitz on March 20, 1943 at the age of 15. He and his father were sent to work at the tailor shop where they stayed until the evacuation in January 1945. Afterwards he was sent to Mauthausen, then Melk, and finally Ebensee, where he was liberated by the Americans on May 6, 1945. While at Melk he started keeping a diary which served as the basis for his book.
A list of the sanitary installations at Auschwitz and Birkenau drawn up by the civilian employee of the Zentralbauleitung Rudolf Jährling on 30 July 1943 describes the sanitary installation in the Gypsy camp as follows:
The narrative of Page’s capture, transportation, and existence in Andersonville and before it a Virginia camp known as Belle Isle conform in general outline to other accounts of persons sharing his experience (of whom most survived and many told): the general deprivation of diversions, pleasures, and often enough, various necessities; the recurrent wildfires of rumors having mostly to do with prisoner exchanges, which actually occurred sporadically particularly early in the war; the monstrous uncertainties that plague any and every captive of hostiles in all history. But one element stands out conspicuously in Page’s story that is absent from most of its competitors: the compassion, even occasional caring, if not respect, evidenced by Confederate soldiers and guards for the Union soldiers for each of whom, they all knew, there was at least one Confederate prisoner in the hands of Union captors.
Let us assume that the Holocaust historians are right and that the Germans indeed killed more than two million Jews in the Soviet Union. If this were the case, there would be a huge amount of material evidence. When the Germans discovered the bodies of 4,143 Polish officers shot by the Soviets at Katyn, they flew in an international commission, consisting of physicians from no fewer than 12 countries, to inspect the site of the crime and to carry out autopsies. They then published a detailed forensic report about the massacre.[1] Some months later, the Germans did the same thing after finding the bodies of 9,432 Ukrainians murdered by the NKVD at Vinnitsa before the war, inviting no fewer than eight local and six foreign commissions to verify the facts.[2] The National Socialist propagandists used the grisly discoveries for a very successful anti-Bolshevist campaign.
But perhaps I am too hard on Professor Longerich. After all, his own orthodox contemporaries fare not much better. Browning and Gerlach earn the most discussion in the text, with five or six minor citations each. But apart from scattered footnote references and uncited listings in the bibliography, he virtually ignores the likes of Kershaw, Pressac, Piper, Evans, Tregenza, Gutman, and Arad. Van Pelt merits only a single mention in the text (p. 281). Andrzej Kola's revealing excavation work at Belzec and Sobibor is completely overlooked.[4] Even the former dean of Holocaust research, Raul Hilberg (God rest his soul), is virtually dismissed. Only seven years after the definitive 2003 edition of his magnum opus, and just three years after his demise, Hilberg earns but three passing mentions in the text. In a final insult (p. 202), Longerich even misspells the poor man's name ("Raoul"). This dismissal of Hilberg can be read as a kind of implicit admission that Jürgen Graf (2001) was right all along—that this giant does indeed have feet of clay.
[12] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, pp.  242-244.
If Germany was also a victim of a ‘downfall,’ and if the Holocaust was no different from a mélange of other tragedies, Germany’s moral obligation to welcome all who seek refuge within its borders is lessened. (p. 215)
These suggestions by historian Graf and I are not far-fetched at all. During WWII and at the Nuremburg trials in the aftermath of the war, the Soviets claimed that the Germans “committed” the Katyn massacre in Poland. It was not until April 1990 that the former USSR confessed up and admitted that the Soviet secret police were indeed responsible for the atrocity.[68] We may live to see a similar scenario play out with the Holocaust mythology. It may be Russians, and not Jews, that will determine the future fate of the Holocaust mythology.
The alleged genocide of European Jewry is extremely important in promoting Jewish interests. The “Holocaust” has been used to justify the Allied war effort, to establish the state of Israel, to justify Israel’s violence against its neighbors, to induce guilt in both Germans and the Allied nations, to cover up and ignore horrific Allied crimes against Germans, to allow Jews to receive massive reparations from Germany, and to create solidarity in the Jewish community. The extreme importance of the “Holocaust” in advancing Zionist/Jewish interests ensures that Jewish groups and individuals will continue to promote this falsification of history in the future.[43]
For my part, on March 19, 1976 I discovered the building plans, kept hidden until then, of all the crematoria of Auschwitz and Birkenau:[10] in those crematoria the rooms supposed to have been gas chambers absolutely could not have served as chemical slaughterhouses: they were mainly typical, classic holding rooms for corpses awaiting cremation (Leichenhalle, Leichenkeller...), spaces altogether devoid of the formidable machinery that would have been needed to carry out the evacuation of the hydrogen cyanide gas which, had it been used, would have permeated the surfaces and the bodies (see the American gas chamber functioning precisely with hydrogen cyanide gas).
“By order of the Reichsführer SS of 16.12.1942 – Journal no. I 2652/42 Ad/RF/V – Gypsy crossbreeds, Gypsies who are Roma and belong to Gypsy stock of Balkan origin, having no German blood, should be selected according to certain directives and assigned to a concentration camp in an action lasting a very few weeks. This circle of persons, in that which follows, shall be referred to, in abbreviated form, as “Gypsy persons”. The internment shall occur by family, without consideration for the degree of crossbreeding, in the Gypsy concentration camp (Gypsy Camp) of Auschwitz. [...].
Interestingly, Auschwitz veterans have attributed a superhuman work effort to Mengele in regard to the selection process. For example, at the well-publicized 1963-1965 Auschwitz trial in Frankfurt, a Jewish inmate who claimed to have unloaded incoming transports insisted at the trial that Mengele alone was always there for selections. When the judge commented, “Mengele cannot have been there all the time,” the witness said: “In my opinion, always. Night and day.”[16] If Mengele had worked that hard in the selection process, he wouldn’t have had time to perform his other medical duties.
We counted six hundred cartridge casings that day, at the restaurant. Guillaume climbed up onto the table to photograph them from above. I realized that we had a duty to collect all these traces, the traces of the murders, all these cartridge casings, equivalent to an equal number of proofs of the Shoah by shooting (emphasis added).
This issue is also not just a matter of journalists and propagandists making up wild figures. In 2015, in a book about the forensic examination of mass-murder locations of the Holocaust, a British archaeologist who has been working with the leading scientists in the field for several years wrote, quote:[14]
[29] See trial transcript, pp. 846-848. See also, Kulaszka, Barbara, (ed.), Did Six Million Really Die: Report of Evidence in the Canadian “False News” Trial of Ernst Zündel, Toronto: Samisdat Publishers Ltd., 1992, p. 24.
David Ben-Gurion stated at the beginning of World War II that the war should end by giving the Zionists their own state. After the war, Ben-Gurion and other Israeli leaders said that the Holocaust had proven once again that the only solution to the Jewish problem was an independent state in Israel. David Ben-Gurion again mentioned during Adolf Eichmann’s trial that the Holocaust happened because Jews did not live in their own country.[4]
Practising mendacity on a grand scale, the “Holocaust” religionists have made themselves, little by little, the enemies of the human race. For more than sixty years they have progressively been putting the whole world, or just about, under indictment. Their main target has, of course, been Germany and all those who, alongside that country, had thought it their duty to fight against Stalin in the same way that others, in the opposing camp, believed they must fight against Hitler. But, in their accusatory frenzy, Jewish organisations have gone so far as to rebuke the wartime Allies for an alleged criminal “indifference” to the lot of the European Jews. They have attacked Roosevelt, Churchill, De Gaulle, Pope Pius XII, the International Committee of the Red Cross and numerous other personalities, official bodies or countries for not having denounced the existence of the “gas chambers”. But how could what was so obviously just a grotesque war rumour have been considered verified? It is enough to read the book by the Jew Walter Laqueur, The Terrible Secret (London, Weidenfeld & Nicholson, 1980, 262 p.), to gather thirty or so references to the widespread and thoroughly justified scepticism in the Allied camp before the flood of rumours originating from Jewish sources. Inquiries were carried out enabling officials to conclude that the rumours were unfounded. It was thus clear-sightedness and not indifference that the Allies and others charged showed. It was that same clear-sightedness which, after the war, in their speeches or in their memoirs, Churchill, De Gaulle and Eisenhower showed as they avoided mentioning, even so much as once, the said “gas chambers”.
A Frenchman accustomed to seeing his country’s justice system settle the fate of a revisionist in the space of one or two afternoons in the 17th chamber of the Paris criminal court might be astonished to learn that at Toronto, in 1985, the first Zündel trial lasted seven weeks and the second, in 1988, over four months. One may add that, in English-law (or common-law) countries, the contents of any trial are the subject of a full transcript, whilst in France, in “our” 17th chamber, generally, the clerk simply makes a few notes in the “plumitif”, the name given to the ledger in which he or she mentions merely the main facts of the hearing. The result is as follows: when a person receives the text of a judgment regarding himself or herself and wants to know the terms in which the judges have recorded and appreciated what he or she personally said at the bar, there will usually be NOTHING or almost NOTHING! At most that person will have the satisfaction of coming upon an “aside” of the type “Mr X having been heard presenting his arguments”. A reader of this decision will thus learn that the person in question had orally put forth “arguments”, but will not know which ones! Nor will it be possible to know anything about the worth or non-worth that the judges have assigned to each of those “arguments”. The judges will perhaps do the reader the favor of expounding on (in their way) and judging the written pleadings filed by counsel at the start of the session, but they will hardly go any further. Curiously, French judges and most lawyers seem very comfortable indeed with these pretenses, a veritable sham. Between good pals, settled in their habits, they agree in relegating the person on trial to the least important rank. He or she is treated as a nuisance who, in any case, does not understand much of the shell game going on in which the lawyers, prosecutors and three judges are enjoying themselves, using the jargon that they share. As for the jury, they are conspicuous by their absence. The historian who, years later, will want to know what was actually said in the courtroom during such or such case, whether famous or obscure, can spare himself the trouble of looking.
Many of the Germans in Poland were also sent to former German concentration camps. In March 1945, the Polish military command declared that the entire German people shared the blame for starting World War II. Over 105,000 Germans were sent to labor camps in Poland before their expulsion from Poland. The Polish authorities soon converted concentration camps such as Auschwitz-Birkenau, Łambinowice (called Lamsdorf by its German occupants) and others into internment and labor camps. In fact, the liberation of the last Jewish inmates at the Auschwitz main camp and the arrival of the first ethnic Germans to Auschwitz were separated by less than two weeks.
That this letter appeared on the website of the Australian “holocaust denial” website of the Adelaide Institute, founded by Dr. Frederick Toben (a Kantian who studied in New Zealand under Karl Popper, and when I knew him, evinced no interest in National Socialism) is more than sufficient to have this writer branded as “a close associate of Toben’s” and “New Zealand’s leading holocaust denier,” by Marxist smear-mongers.
Carlo Mattogno has pointed out a particularly illuminating case of a Jewish individual transited through Treblinka.[20] It concerns the fate of a certain Minna Grossova, who was born on Sept. 20, 1874. On October 19, 1942, this 68-year-old lady was deported to Treblinka – at a time when on average some 5,000 Jews are said to have been killed and buried there every single day. But instead of getting killed there, she was sent to Auschwitz, where she … no, was not sent to the gas chambers either, although she was most certainly not “fit for labor,” but lived there another 14 months, finally dying there on December 30.[21] If Mrs. Grossova at age 68 was spared death in the gas chambers of Treblinka and Auschwitz, it is likely that the many hundreds of her fellow sufferers deported together with her shared her fate as well. This fate, too, underlines that Treblinka was indeed used as a transit camp where not even old, frail Jews were murdered.
And it’s important to note that most of those seen in this photograph aren’t even Jews but primarily non-Jewish political prisoners, including Poles, Russians and Jehovah’s Witnesses. These majority non-Jewish victims of Allied bombing at a former labor camp are used to sell a supposed Jewish Holocaust.
One should accept the basic logic of the USHMM and others who expected to find a “smoking gun.” Had there actually been a program to exterminate the Jews of Europe, Alfred Rosenberg should have commented on this in his diary. Had Rosenberg commented on a program of mass extermination, the Holocaust revisionist werewolf could finally be eradicated, removing the greatest challenge to the orthodoxy upon which the Holocaust faith and the USHMM is built.[11]
Shlomo Dragon’s testimony is phony for many reasons. First, Dragon claims that the sexes were not separated before entering the alleged gas chambers. This is not credible because:
One must view Jewish-Zionism’s success in elevating the Holocaust ideology to the status an unquestionable religious dogma in the surrounding context of non-Jewish interests. During and after WWII, the interests of powerful international Jewish groups dovetailed with the other most powerful groups on this planet—the victorious Allied governments of the Soviet Union, the United States, Great Britain, France and others. Since the most powerful political forces on this planet had a vested interest in promoting the same story, it would be very difficult for anyone to discover that it is false. This is one important reason why the “Holocaust” became an “established fact” throughout much of world.
However, the ceiling did NOT have brass fixtures, but merely zinc-plated iron showerheads. Furthermore, as can be seen in this photo of a spot where a showerhead had been removed by the Americans as a piece of evidence, these were merely fake showerheads – or rather watering can rosettes such as this – that were not connected to anything. Already the documentary we watched earlier said that there was
Franz Stangl, who oversaw the last phase of the camp’s construction and served as commandant from March to September 1942, described the first installation as a “brick building” in his interview with British journalist Gitta Sereny.[37] On the other hand, he told a German court a different story. Arriving at Sobibor early April 1942, he said “I noticed a stone construction on a partially wooded site which had not yet been fenced off. This building had not been included in the plans. After some days I began to suspect that gas chambers were being built.”[38] Were the first “gas chambers” made of brick or stone? Stangl apparently changed his story.
So the gassing situation as of September was truly mind-boggling. Assuming round-the-clock operation, Belzec could have gassed 14,400 per day. (Lest the reader think I am exaggerating here, consider this statement in the 2001 Holocaust Encyclopedia, p. 178: “Belzec was the first camp to be equipped with permanent gas chambers, which had the capacity to kill 15,000 persons a day.”) Sobibor, 11,500. And Treblinka, assuming just six large (32 sq meter) chambers, an astonishing 23,000 daily. The sum total: 49,000 gassings each day, maximum capacity. Monthly, this comes to almost 1.5 million. And all without a single muffle.
The screens covering the openings of a ventilation system, also called registers, usually have slits as openings as shown in the illustrations to the right. The type used in the Morgues #1 of Crematoria II & III at Auschwitz merely had very small holes, which increased the drag of the air-intake system considerably. Since these screens were made by the Auschwitz inmate workshop in early 1943, it is safe to assume that the Topf employees designing the ventilation system in November 1941 and March 1942, including its blowers and motors, did not know what these registers would look like. Rough calculations of the ventilation system’s drag indicate that these vents actually caused half of the system’s pressure loss.
Mainstream historiography knows of only one transports of Viennese (or other Austrian) Jews to Kaunas, which took place on November 23, 1941. The ambiguity concerning the nationality of the “French” deportees as well as the late date of Mishell’s memoirs prompts us to regard this piece of witness evidence as of minor value.
Holocaust revisionist texts deal with history. They do not use libelous terms in any regard, and they also usually don’t concern themselves with making sweeping accusations against any particular group. Where they make them, they are usually qualified in terms of proffering evidence to support the claim. More frequent are accusations directed against witnesses – victims, bystanders, perpetrators – of erring, exaggerating and lying, in each case usually backed up with evidence to support the claim.
could maintain that they had been unaware during the whole war of the massive executions which took place at Auschwitz, at Treblinka and elsewhere, that they had learned about them for the first time by listening to their accusers, and no document of the trial enables us to affirm that Göring, Ribbentrop, or Keitel lied by saying that; it is very possible, indeed, that the policy of Himmler was a totally personal policy, discreetly carried out, and for which he alone bears the responsibility.[17]
One final point concerns the very legitimacy – or lawfulness – of war crimes trials generally. This point was raised in 1970 by Laurens van der Post, who had been a prisoner of the Japanese in the Dutch East Indies and who owed his life to the dropping of the atom bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Despite the sufferings he had incurred, van der Post wrote: ‘I myself was utterly opposed to any form of war trials. I refused to collaborate with the officers of the various war crimes tribunals that were set up in the Far East. There seemed to me something unreal, if not utterly false, about a process that made men like the War Crimes Investigators from Europe, who had not suffered under the Japanese, more bitter and vengeful about our suffering than we were ourselves.
This left only two recourses to accuseds who hoped to attain a prison sentence instead of a quick trip to the gallows, both recourses having similar effects. The first was, to confirm, amplify, and extend the overall tales of atrocity and genocide. Doing this was hoped, and was seen, to garner at least some degree of leniency on the part of the prosecution, whose goal was, after all, the incrimination of an entire nation, and not just of whatever hapless accused might occupy the dock at any particular moment. So, many accuseds, from Rudolf Höss[7] on down, took up this gambit as a desperate attempt to appease their inquisitors, quite like defendants in proceedings throughout history in which the verdict, if not the sentence, was quite foregone.
Alexander supports the suggestion adopted by Human Rights Watch, which “insists that governments should ban speech only when it ‘constitutes imminent incitement’ to violence and other unlawful acts and urges reform of these laws, including repeal of Holocaust denial laws.”
Notice that some of them were also sent to Birkenau and Majdanek, two other well-known death camps, but again they continued alive.
The first stage of the project involved the recruitment and identification of victims, or stooges. Torture, broadly understood, served even this initial phase of the operation. Here, I propose the inclusion under the rubric of torture the power to convict and punish (often with death) persons against whom effectively no respectable evidence of guilt whatsoever can be adduced. This is a situation of absolute injustice which prevailed as well in the tribunals of the Western Allies as it did in those of the Soviets. Its capacity to motivate victims in the early phases of the roundup is not to be underestimated.
The historical evidence supports Butz’s viewpoint. The “Nazi extermination camp” mythology was declared “historical truth” at the Nuremberg trials, and it was then used as an ideological cornerstone for the Allied installed governments in postwar Germany. The conquered Germans were to be fully indoctrinated with the Holocaust ideology. Political analyst Chamberlin pointed out in 1963 that government education ministries ordered that school children receive full information about “Nazi policies of violence and cruelty [real or made up?].”[35] In accord with this policy: “Films of Nazi brutalities [real or made up?] have been widely shown in German schools, and the interest of the children is kept alive by discussions and questionnaires.”[36] Furthermore, the military establishment of West Germany was under the control of the United States and NATO.[37] As of 2008, there were 150,000 American troops stationed within southern Germany.[38]
No matter where the chips fall, I do think that Cole’s “exterminationist” interpretation of the Aktion Reinhardt system is superficially plausible and therefore useful. Whether it can withstand more intensive scrutiny is a different matter. Being a dilettante at best, I can only say it’s not how I would bet. Presumably for reasons of brevity, Cole neglects to directly address the copious revisionist literature in this area, so when he states that “revisionists have never produced an alternate explanation of the fate met by the Jews sent to camps like Treblinka and Sobibor, with empty trains returning” I am left to wonder whether he has read Samuel Crowell’s carefully documented treatment of the Aktion Reinhardt camps in the Nine-Banded Books edition of The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes. For what it’s worth, the relevant discussion is framed in the seldom-read fourth part of Crowell’s book, “The Holocaust in Retrospect,” where – I’m trying to save everyone time here – the most succinct statement of an “alternate explanation” (though Crowell would probably call it an “interpretation”) is advanced in the fifth section, “Aktion Reinhardt and the Legacy of Forced Labor,” beginning at page 339. Without wading too deep into the morass, Crowell offers a contextual reading of several key documents to support the revisionist position that “Aktion Reinhardt was about wealth seizure and SS control of Polish Jews, chiefly for labor purposes: It was not about mass murder.”
The project of converting delousing chambers to Areginal gas[14] has also been described in some detail in the standard monograph on Tesch and Stabenow.[15]
Rudolf Höss, Commandant of Auschwitz. Photo is in the public domain. Source: Wikimedia Commons.
In 2002, Charles D. Provan wrote an article entitled Miklos Nyiszli and His Auschwitz Book in a New Light[62] in which, based on research considered fundamental by himself, he attempted to justify the absurdities proffered by the self-proclaimed “eyewitness” (which Provan magnanimously referred to as “errors”), asserting that Nyiszli’s book was not a historical record, but a novel. This claim is based on two erroneous assertions:
Let us consider the time-line for a moment. Elie gives the date of his father’s death as 29 January 1945. As a satellite camp to Auschwitz, we suppose Buna was evacuated approximately the same time as Auschwitz, that is, 18 January 1945, whereafter there was a two nights’ march to Gleiwitz, where the prisoners stayed for three days. Then there was a train ride to Buchenwald, which required “ten days, and ten nights.” Then another week while Elie’s father was dying of dysentery. We should now be at 9 February, or later, but Elie tells us his father died during the night of 28 – 29 January. Something is wrong here. But there is something else. The father has dysentery while at Buchenwald and the doctors wouldn’t or couldn’t do anything for him. Fellow prisoners beat him and took his bread. The head of the block, someone sympathetic, advises Elie not to waste rations on the father. And finally, an SS officer finishes him off with a blow from his truncheon. So despite the treatment of fellow prisoners, despite dysentery and even the behavior of Elie himself, the blame comes to rest with the Germans. Elie wants us to see it that way. And technically he is right, but later he would try to establish something evil about the soul of the Germans. There is an interesting comparison in Solzhenitsyn’s Ivan Denisovich when speaking about “Shukov” (i.e., Denisovich). For he speaks of a Soviet warder who pricked himself on the sewing needle Shukov hid in his prisoner’s cap when the former snatched the cap off his head during inspection. And the warder became so angry by this “he’d almost smashed Shukov’s head in.”[18] And this is not to forgive or excuse what the SS officer did to Elie’s father but to understand that temper, violence and brutishness was as much a part of gulags as it was a part of concentration camps, the type of people these establishments required or bred, and is therefore less particular and more universal than one might otherwise wish to believe.
“But during the trial there was only one witness, a Czech physician assigned to care for the prisoners, Dr. Frantisek Blaha, who declared that experimental gassings had taken place in the Dachau gas chamber.”
Despite the threadbare evidence, in 1988 Demjanjuk was found guilty in his first trial, in Israel, and sentenced to death by hanging for his crimes. His attorneys appealed and after several years of solitary confinement, his case went to the Israeli Supreme Court. While most media outlets had already served as Demanjuk’s judge, jury, and hangman, the Israeli Supreme Court carefully weighed the evidence. Shevah Weiss, a member of the Israeli Knesset and Holocaust survivor declared “The judges will decide. I’m sure they will not send someone to hang if he is innocent.” Indeed, in a surprise conclusion, the Israelis found the evidence for his conviction insufficient and released him in July of 1993.
This overall picture, although highly condensed, shows clearly that Miklos Nyiszli was a false witnesss. The Holocaust Industry recognised this immediately, but, in a sort of “see no evil” posture, they prefer to continue utilising Nyiszli’s “testimony” in support of the alleged crimes of Dr. Mengele.
But the experts did not content themselves with this absurd exaggeration. With regard to the capacity of the four stationary one-muffle ovens of Sachsenhausen, the Technical Report stated:
Nevertheless, for the Jewish people, [and this is a belief shared to a great extent by the world at large], the “Holocaust” represents the Nazis’ determined attempt to utterly exterminate the Jewish population of Europe that lay within their grasp, primarily, but not exclusively, by means of homicidal gas chambers. In fact, the very word “Holocaust” refers to a burnt offering, evoking in the minds of many commentators, horrific images of the crematoria of Auschwitz and the burning pits of Treblinka.
Once again, we are disappointed. In her very first sentence, Lipstadt manages to utilize not one, not two, but three argumentative fallacies. The “deniers” (slander) are led by a small group of men, including “Faurisson, Butz, and Irving” (misleading names), who “spread the notion that the Holocaust…never happened” (straw man and flat-out lie). A poor start, to be sure.
Greetings dear readers, we’re back again with another episode of our loveable historian and award winner Laurence Rees. (For the first episode see here). This time we are going to have a look at his newest addition in the Holocaust arsenal – his magnum opus The Holocaust: A New History (Penguin Books, 2017). So fasten your seat belts because the ride is about to begin!
In January of 1942, we read that Heinrich Himmler “has uprooted approximately 6,000,000 human beings” and shipped them into occupied Poland, “where they necessarily starve and freeze to death and die of disease” (Jan 18; p. SM10). By mid-1942, it was “a vast slaughterhouse for Jews” in Europe; one million were reported dead, and the remainder of the “6,000,000 to 7,000,000” at risk (Jun 30; p. 7). By December the Jewish death toll was reported as 2 million, representing one third of the 6,000,000 “in Hitler’s domain.” It was, said the NYT, “a holocaust without parallel” (Dec 13; p. 21).
It is important to note that Diamond has no scientific evidence whatsoever to back up his belief that New Guineans are genetically superior in intelligence to Europeans and other peoples of Eurasian origin: he simply puts forth the aforementioned line of argument—and a very dubious one at that. In the 2005 edition of his magnum opus, he admitted that this belief is a “subjective impression.”[57] That is to say, a “subjective impression” forms the foundation of his Pulitzer Prize winning theory!
The assault apparently against our ability to publish and sell books asserts falsely that Inconvenient History is a “hate group.” Hikind opined, “Unfortunately, it is no longer shocking in this day and age to find those who deny the Holocaust—those who espouse openly racist, hateful ideologies.” Hikind, who asserts that his grandmother “went to the gas chambers” finds it “immoral” that credit card companies would do business with us.
However, Germany did not conduct a program of genocide against Jews. The widely quoted figure of 6-million Jewish deaths during the war is also a major exaggeration. As documented in this article, the figure of 6-million Jewish deaths originated from Zionist propaganda dating back to at least the year 1900. The figure of 6-million Jewish deaths in the “Holocaust” is an ahistorical invention having no basis in reality.[36]
What we see is that Jews gained a favor for their ethnic group, the establishment of a museum commemorating the alleged suffering of their ethnic group alone, on the premise that it was not going to be specifically about them. Whether it was planned that way or just worked out that way, the promotion of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum amid talk of the “11 million victims of the Holocaust,” when it was really only going to be about an alleged 6 million Jewish victims, amounts to a bait-and-switch scam.
“Although people like Deborah Lipstadt, the Emory University professor who has written and lectured widely on Holocaust denial, have exhorted Jewish parents to just say no to intermarriage, much the way they expect their children not to take drugs, a large majority of parents (and more than a few rabbis) are unable to lay down opposition to intermarriage [between Jews and non-Jews] as a strict operating principle.”[13]
Such knee-jerk condemnation is also evidenced by the attitude of colleagues and students to Arthur Butz, one of the world’s most notorious ‘Holocaust deniers,’ and author of The Hoax of the Twentieth Century: The Case Against the Presumed Extermination of European Jewry (1974). Butz also happens to be a tenured Professor of Electrical Engineering at Northwestern University in Illinois. As a result of his published work, which obviously has nothing to do with his teaching position, he has been subjected to a sustained campaign to have him sacked. According to a letter printed in the Chicago Tribune, on February 17th 2006, Sixty-one of Butz’s colleagues in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science published a petition in which they called for Butz to ‘leave our Department and our University and stop trading on our reputation for academic excellence.’ None of them however, were prepared to offer any details regarding Butz’ book and where, precisely they felt he was in error or guilty of falsification. Students at the University followed suit by starting the ‘Never Again’ campaign, which, on the 30th November 2007, had 10,032 signatures. The campaign described Butz as ‘offensive and historically inaccurate’ and stated, ‘The goal of students, faculty, alumni, and others offended by Arthur Butz’s denial of the Holocaust should not be to prove him wrong. Debating Mr Butz in any type of forum would dignify his claims. Lending credibility and dignity to Arthur Butz by engaging him in debate would be equally offensive as his views are to begin with.’[26]
Throughout his entire book, Gilbert discusses how the unrelenting Churchill, being wedded to Zionist policy, was up against the resistance of many factions within his own government and from around the world who were opposed to establishing a Jewish state in Palestine. They realized it would end in disaster for the indigenous people of the Middle East and for British interests in general.[63] In a situation such as this, one can readily see how “Nazi extermination” propaganda would be useful to Churchill—it would silence opposition to Zionist aims and create mass sympathy for the future Jewish state.[64] There is evidence that is consistent with this interpretation. In December 1942, Colonial Secretary Oliver Stanley put the request to the Prime Minister that 4500 Bulgarian Jewish children, with 500 accompanying adults, be allowed to exit Bulgaria for Palestine, adding that British pubic opinion had been “much roused by the recent reports of the systematic extermination of the Jews in Axis and Axis-controlled countries.” Churchill replied: “Bravo!”[65]
As Lao Tzu commented, “The flame that burns twice as bright burns half as long,” Crowell’s bright revisionist career abruptly ended as the millennium began. If interesting events occurred or new discoveries were made, Crowell would continue to comment among friends, but his public writing had all but ceased. It was a great surprise when in 2011 publisher Chip Smith decided to publish a proper volume of Sherlock now titled, The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes and Other Writings on the Holocaust, Revisionism, and Historical Understanding.
For its part, the Canadian English-language press has put out the news in terms which, unfortunately, can be understood when one knows that Douglas Christie had especially made himself known for his uncompromising defense of a major figure of historical revisionism, Ernst Zündel. But – a happy surprise – at least one newspaper, the Times Colonist of Victoria, British Columbia, where Douglas Christie lived, has reminded its readers that it was this extraordinary barrister who in 1992 finally enabled Ernst Zündel to gain an unhoped-for victory against the religionists of “the Holocaust.”
The Holocaust in American Life, by Peter Novick, Mariner Books, New York, 1999, 373 pp.
Dies ist ein weiterer Auszug aus dem US- Propagandafilm “Nazi Konzentrationslager”, der während des Nürnberger Tribunals gezeigt wurde.
“Now Weizmann reported mistakenly that 60,000 Jews were being gassed and burned to death each day at Birkenau (the death camp at Auschwitz II). Eden told Churchill that this figure might well be an exaggeration. But on the next day, Eden forwarded an additional report to Churchill, describing the four crematoria at the camp, with a gassing and burning capacity of 60,000 each day. Some 40,000 Hungarian Jews had already been deported and killed there. Over the past one year and a half, some one-and-a-half million Jews had been done to death in the camp.”[51]
Alfred Reckendrees provides us with some information about the genesis of the “Prisoner‘s Report”. This report written for the benefit of the Soviet liberators was probably the brainchild of Hellmut Bock, a Communist prisoner under whose supervision the document was drafted. According to Bock, a group of former prisoners who had stayed behind in the camp had decided to[6] “collect evidence about the camp in order to make it available to future investigative authorities.”
One need look no further than the daily news for evidence pertaining to miscarriages of justice, whereby individuals who were falsely accused and convicted of heinous crimes are suddenly, after enduring years of imprisonment, vindicated and released on the basis of new scientific evidence proving their innocence. In perhaps no other epoch of contemporary history are science and history more closely interrelated than in respect to the “Holocaust” and the gas chambers of Auschwitz, for not only is it alleged that a crime of historical magnitude occurred, but Auschwitz is also unique in that the installations allegedly used to implement the massacre still exist more or less intact and may be scientifically examined by means of the latest forensic technology. Although the crime occurred on Polish soil, it has since become, at the insistence of Jewish organizations and the United Nations, of historic interest to the international community, in spite of the fact that Jewish organizations repeatedly aver that their self-interests surpass and supersede those of the Polish state, the Catholic Church and the concomitant totality of non-Jewish victims who perished in Auschwitz. By insisting that the legacy of Auschwitz is of import to all humanity, Jewish commentators opened the door to further inquiry, leading a reasonable person to infer that Jewish organizations would undoubtedly welcome the long overdue suggestion that an independent, unbiased international team of forensic scientists ought to be commissioned to exhaustively inspect and investigate the still-extant bunkers of Auschwitz in order to lay this highly controversial matter to rest once and for all.
In a formal declaration reflecting the official view of the United States government, it was stated: "The 1945 defeat of Nazi Germany by the U.S. and its allies finally put a stop to dictator Adolf Hitler’s campaign of genocide."[97]
Another most unsatisfactory element in Ms Sereny’s account concerns her handling of the evidence of Pinhas Epstein (that on arrival at Israel Demjanjuk clearly walked like “Ivan the Terrible”): “It was one of those moments when one’s doubts dissolve: this was no horror story, no prepared scenario by a professional witness. He could not have known this question would be asked… the memory of how a man walked, a characteristic that does not change with age.”
This summer, Democratic Assemblyman from Brooklyn, New York Dov Hikind launched a misguided assault against Inconvenient History and several other publishers who carry among other things Holocaust revisionist articles and commentary. Hikind is attempting to financially hamstring several organizations by arranging a vendor boycott of sorts in which major credit card companies are bullied or otherwise coerced into ceasing to do business with us.[1]
Let us briefly examine just a few details to unscramble this mess as best as possible. Historians overwhelmingly accept as true, as do most people who know of this “incident,” that the SS, SD and Gestapo worked together to concoct an elaborate fake raid on the radio-transmitter station located in Gleiwitz (now known as Gliwice[6]), a small border town located on the Polish-German frontier. By most accounts, a handful of either SS or SD men—historians are unable to agree on which—purportedly dressed up as “Polish soldiers” or “insurgents” and staged a shootout at the transmitter station. This shootout was purportedly led by the notorious Nazi turncoat Alfred Naujocks[7], the sole source behind the Nuremberg account of the raid. These SS and/or SD men were supposed to have left a body—only recently identified as a Polish citizen of German descent named Franz Honiok (minus any proof)[8]—at the scene as evidence that much more than just a scuffle took place there.[9] However, some historians, such as Dennis Whitehead, seem to think that the SS/SD shot and killed a few of their own men to make the whole thing seem real, and that in fact hundreds of men took place in this whole covert operation (300, to be exact)—which includes two other “false-flag” raids at Hohenlinden or Hochlinden (henceforth, H/H; historians cannot agree on which location it was) and Pitschen. In a nutshell, Mr. Whitehead merged several contradictory versions of the Gleiwitz Incident in an attempt to sell the entire “Nazi false-flag” story as legit. He failed in his mission because two (or more) fictional accounts are no better than one. My own research into this incident, and the other two purported false flags at H/H and Pitschen, proves that not a single one of these historians’ claims is verified. Not a single one.
This volume also contains the entire article “Bomb Shelters in Birkenau,” a very detailed, not for the novice consideration of the evidence for Bomb Shelters at the infamous Birkenau camp and how this evidence has been misconstrued to be evidence of a criminal extermination program for the Jews of Europe.
He was supported by Liberal Party Senator O’Chee: “I think that what Mr. Pearce is saying is that in a tolerant society you have room for free speech, and he is saying that if you curtail that principle you strike at the very principle of tolerance itself and ultimately you undermine a multicultural society.”[88] Pearce went on to explain that there were only “two very discrete and small categories of conduct” which the bill proscribed that were not already proscribed by other laws: “hate speech” and “giving offense or insulting someone”. He insisted: “There is simply no evidence that I have seen which demonstrates that conduct of that kind in Australia in 1995 threatens social order.”[89]
To take one lesser known example of such problematic witnesses, consider the case of Yanina Cywinska. As reported in the LA Times (May 2, 1992), she was a “16-year-old Polish Roman Catholic girl” taken to Auschwitz along with her parents and brother. (They were sent for helping the Jews.) “She recalled being placed in a gas chamber naked along with her father.” Miraculously, young Yanina survived: “she was saved by a Jewish woman who gave her mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.” Apparently this story wasn’t exactly correct, because the same newspaper reported a different version 11 years later. Now she was a 10-year-old at Auschwitz, where her parents and brother died in the chambers. She was sent there as well, “but because she was huskier than most children, Cywinska only passed out from the gas. A German revived her and put her to work” (August 17, 2003). Then in 2005 the story changed again. The Quad-City Times reported that “she survived the gas chamber when adult bodies fell on top of her, protecting her from inhaling a lethal amount of poison gas. Found moaning by Jewish slave laborers…she was resuscitated, given a uniform, and told to blend in with the others” (April 11). I haven’t the space to address the many problems with these reports; suffice to say that there was some heavy poetic license at work here, if not blatant falsification.
Hart and many others commented of Nuremberg that it set a dangerous precedent that should not be followed in future.[5] This is precisely one of the primary concerns of revisionists: how precedents set by the Allied treatment of Germany have established foundations for the present “new world [dis]order,” reflected for example in the lynching of Saddam Hussein and the trials of Serb military and political leaders. Again it is the concept of vengeance being played out behind the rhetoric of the concepts of “international law” established at Nuremberg. The epilogue from Rear Admiral Dan V. Gallery’s book Twenty Million Tons under the Sea was used as the “Prologue” for the Dönitz book, with Gallery’s permission, wherein he referred to “the kangaroo court at Nuremberg.” Its reference as the “International Military Tribunal” he regarded as “a libel on the military profession.”[6] He found it absurd that military leaders could be tried for waging “aggressive war.” Admirals Dönitz and Raeder were tried under new rules of war at sea that the Allies had not themselves followed.[7]
[8] Jadwiga Bezwińska, Danuta Czech (eds.), KL Auschwitz Seen by the SS, Howard Fertig, New York, 1984, p. 93.
Without at least a given name and an approximate date of birth it is nigh unto impossible to identify this individual. Nonetheless we may note that a search of the online Yad Vashem Central Database of Shoah Victims' Names,[85] which reportedly contains records of close to 3 million individuals—with the caveat that "some people appear in more than one record")[86]— produces a mere 29 results for the surname "Zisling" with variants (Cizling, Zysling, Tzizling), whereof almost half are duplicates. We are thus dealing with a very rare Jewish surname. Of these search results, the following pertain to young girls:
According to Broad, the victims, several hundred of them, at first stood in the courtyard of the crematorium, which was surrounded by a high wall and were then led into the building. If we follow the plan that Dwork and van Pelt publish as Plate 3 of their book, the victims at first entered a hall some 4 m wide and 6 m long, then turned right to move on, through a door of normal width, into the corpse-washing room which measured about 4 by 4 meters. Here, they made a left turn, passed through another door of normal width that led into the morgue. Broad states that they were accompanied by several guards who withdrew once the hall had been filled and who closed the door from the side of the corpse-washing room.
The anonymous revisionist was without doubt the engineer Pierre Marais, who published similar reasonings in a book in 1991.[62] However, he did not presume the impossibility of the de-aeration from the occlusion of the related openings by a certain number of victims; he spoke generally of “several hundreds, or also of several thousand.”[63] On the other hand, he constructed his argument in opposition to the explanations which were claimed by Georges Wellers in his book Les chambres à gaz ont existé,[64] in which he published the drawings of the vertical sections of Morgue #1 and 2 of the future Crematorium II. The written correspondence which Marais had with this orthodox historian shows that the case of “3,000” was completely outside his scope of contemplation.
This is only one example of many where the sources quoted by van Pelt are presented uncritically; this results in reports containing information that might be true if it were not for statements by the same person that clearly are not. This manner of presentation makes reading van Pelt’s book a difficult task. The reader has the feeling that the intention was less one of underpinning the traditional view of what happened at Auschwitz than one of confusing the other side by an assembly of truths, half-truths and errors, a jumble that has to be cleared before any real progress can be made in the discussion. This kind of tactic is akin to the blowing up of bridges behind an army in retreat, with the aim of slowing down the pursuers and keeping them occupied while new fortifications are being prepared.
Not all defendants made their declarations under duress; there were more refined methods as well. Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski, former SS-Obergruppenführer and Höherer SS- und Polizeiführer Russland-Mitte, stated at the Nuremberg trial that in early 1941, Heinrich Himmler had said at the Wewelsburg that the purpose of the coming campaign in Russia would be the reduction of the Slavic population by 30 million.[19] Now let us take a look at von dem Bach-Zelewski’s fate.[20] According to the official "holocaust” story, he was one of the worst criminals. He is said to have ordered the aforementioned murder of 27,800 Jews near Riga and the massacre of tens of thousands of Soviet civilians. Under these circumstances, one would assume that he was certainly put on trial and sentenced to hang after the war, but precisely this did not happen. In Nuremberg he was used as a witness for the prosecution and then released. Obviously this lenient treatment was the reward for having made statements such as the one quoted above, which allowed the Allies to accuse the Germans of having planned not only the total extermination of the Jews, but also a horrific genocide of tens of millions of Slavs. It is true that von dem Bach-Zelewski was later tried by the West German justice, but not for his alleged role in the Holocaust or the slaughter of Soviet citizens. He was tried for two murders he – really or allegedly - had committed in 1934.
In November 2005, Francesco Rotondi, cardiologist at the San Giuseppe Moscati Hospital in Avellino, published a book titled Honeymoon at Auschwitz: Reflections on Holocaust Denial.[4] It is a full-fledged anti-revisionist libel, filled not only with falsehoods, but also with pure slander against revisionists. At the time, Carlo Mattogno responded to this book for his part. Mattogno’s answer, however exhaustive it may be, concerned almost exclusively the objections brought against his own work. It did not take into consideration the poisonous ad hominem attacks made by Rotondi against Zündel and Leuchter.[5] I try to respond to these, despite the time that has passed, first of all because Rotondi’s book was favorably received by Italy’s academia (before being published by an Italian science publisher, it had been presented as a thesis) and also because I think it is always useful to show the bias of revisionism’s detractors.
“During the camp‘s first months of operation, there were three gas chambers, each 4 x 4 meters and 2.6 meters high […]. A room attached to the building contained a diesel engine, which introduced the poisonous carbon monoxide gas through pipes into the chambers, and a generator, which supplied electricity to the entire camp. […] Inside the chambers the walls were covered with white tiles up to a certain height, and shower heads and piping crisscrossed the ceiling – all designed to maintain the illusion of a shower room. The piping actually served to carry the poison gas into the chambers. When the doors were closed, there was no lighting in the chambers.”[9]
Dr. Bettina Blome, the wife of the defendant Dr. Kurt Blome, meticulously researched experiments that were conducted by the U.S. Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSRD) during the war. In addition to malaria experiments on Terre Haute Federal Prison inmates, she also uncovered Dr. Walter Reed’s 19th-century yellow fever research for the U.S. Army, in which volunteer human test subjects had died. Blome’s research was entered into evidence at the Doctors’ Trial.[28]
“And then we stayed there until they started to build barracks for all the other Auschwitz people when Bergen-Belsen became hell.”
Furthermore, just like other influential intellectuals in her camp, Heschel overlooks all the scientific evidence that discredits the traditional Holocaust story. As an example, consider the revisionist studies of the alleged Auschwitz "gas chambers." Fred Leuchter was at one time the main authority on gas-chamber technology in the United States. Though flawed, his forensic study of the "Auschwitz extermination technology" dealt a damaging blow to this legend.[21] A more thorough and scientifically accurate study of the Auschwitz "gas chambers" was carried out by the German scientist Germar Rudolf. Rudolf's meticulous inquiry showed beyond a reasonable doubt that the traditional Auschwitz extermination story is false.[22] The present German government was unable to refute Rudolf's expert report and his other Revisionist studies of the "Holocaust" with reason and evidence. The only thing they could do is imprison him for telling the truth.
But Floyd’s most-potent evidence is negative—reports and observations that were lacking in earlier displays of the contextual documents, including one in 1892, the Madrid quadricentennial of Columbus’s epic first voyage, in which context one might very much expect the presence of such a map to be noted. Such a historical omission recalls omissions from those accounts (that are demonstrably free of the taint of war-crimes trials) of life in National Socialist concentration camps that omit mention of gas chambers, or the cremation of thousands of bodies every day, or all the other impossibilities of genocide so conducted as to leave no physical (or documentary) traces of their occurrence. Like today’s researchers of the reports of contemporary victims of the Holocaust, Floyd provides a further absence of comment from Cristóbal Pérez Pastor, who in 1926 recorded observations of the volume in which the map was subsequently discovered. Again, the absence of mention is truly deafening.
These parts, of course, address originary evidence, and so are of an altogether different type from the contextual/antecedal approach of Part 1.
Compare these numbers to the task: a combined 4,200 per day. Overkill, you may say. Or maybe our man was just being cautious. After all, gas chambers are cheap. Still, we are at least within the realm of possibility here.
Il museo dell’olocau$to di Washington, United States Holocaust Memorial Museum o ushmm, vuole replicare i fasti del museo dell’olocau$to yad vashem di Gerusalemme… comprese le figure di mera. Attenzione!
Lewis’s comments fell foul of France’s controversial genocide laws, which prohibit denial of “crimes against humanity.” Several activist groups filed a formal complaint against Lewis, who was subsequently found guilty of not being “objective enough” in regard to historical events that the European parliament had officially certified as genocide.
SIR DAVID MAXWELL-FYFE: I submit that this witness’ evidence should be taken in writing. With regard to the earlier part, the Tribunal will have the advantage of the Defendant Goring who was concerned especially with the practices of the police in Prussia in 1933 and 1934, and with regard to the other points, as to the measures of the Defendant Frick, these are either laws or orders or administrative measures, which could be included, in the submission of the Prosecution, as being dealt with by written testimony supplemented by testimony of the Defendant Frick himself.
Yet, if the Holocaust believed in by Paul Quirijinen is ‘the truth,” why does it require punitive laws to compel belief? What historical ‘truth’ is so sacred that it cannot ever be called into question or revised? What sort of “truth” necessitates harsh punishments in cases of non-compliance?
Apart from the harrowing experience at the flaming pit when first arriving, the next three weeks at Auschwitz are really quite good. In the mornings there is black coffee. At noon there is soup. After roll call at 6 p.m., there is bread and margarine. Then the prisoners are free to roam, looking for friends, neighbors and relatives before going to bed by 9 p.m. Elie and his father have nothing to do but sleep a great deal in the afternoon and at night. Their only worry is to in fact stay at Auschwitz “as long as possible” and avoid being moved. How? Simply by identifying themselves as other than skilled laborers, for “laborers” (i.e., unskilled laborers) “were being kept till the end.”
It is not difficult to see why these documents exist; without them the authors of the lie would have no evidence for their claims except testimony. We have seen that with Auschwitz there was an abundance of material facts to work with and whose meanings could be distorted: shipments of Jews to Auschwitz, many of whom did not return to their original homes, large shipments of a source of hydrogen cyanide gas, elaborate cremation facilities, selections, the stench. The situation with the Einsatzgruppen was different; there was only one fact, the executions. Standing alone, this fact does not appear impressive as evidence, and this consideration was no doubt the motivation for manufacturing these documents on such a large scale.[27]
“[T]his modest Roman Catholic priest from Paris, without using much more than his calm voice and Roman collar, has shattered the silence surrounding a largely untold chapter of the Holocaust when Nazis killed 1.5 million Jews in Ukraine from 1941 to 1944.”—Chicago Tribune
Kristallnacht—the infamous “night of broken glass”—may be traced to Hitler’s “reverse-Merkel” project, through the agency of one Hershel Grynszpan, the son of a Polish-Jewish couple caught up in Hitler’s early ethnic-cleansing program. The German government had consigned Grynszpan’s parents in an order of the previous month to join their co-religionists at Poland’s border with Germany, where the Polish government had erected Europe’s first concentration camps for Jews, since it did not want to readmit its erstwhile citizens.
But how can one devise the study of a lethal weapon’s technical evolution without providing a single technical illustration of that weapon? How can one respond to “revisionist denial” without taking up its main challenge, which amounts to saying that the essential weapon of the alleged crime is obviously, quite simply, impossible to design and depict when one is aware, for example, of the unavoidable complication of an American gas chamber for the execution of a lone person? For, in an execution gassing, the difficulty lies not so much in killing another without killing oneself as in going, after the execution, to take a cyanide-infused body out of its seat and out of the chamber, without causing risk to anyone: a difficulty which, as has been noted, the Germans and the Sonderkommando members, for their part, apparently surmounted thousands of times every day. Let us repeat: to kill a crowd of people in a room with hydrocyanic acid is dangerous but not impossible; to enter the room afterwards, even with a gas mask, amid a host of cyanide-infused corpses and then proceed to extricate and carry them, in the course of a few hours, so as to make way for a new gassing of the same proportion, is in the domain of the impossible. The reader will have understood: serial mass gassings are just another silly story (as Yehuda Bauer has admitted in regard to what is commonly said about “Wannsee”) of the same kind as those about “Jewish soap”, “lampshades of human skin”, extermination of the Jewish detainees at Treblinka by steam (official Nuremberg document PS-3311), their extermination at Auschwitz by electricity and in blast furnaces (the Soviet press in early February 1945), or, near Belzec, by quicklime (Jan Karski). There is an endless list of nonsensical tales in the manner of Elie Wiesel or Father Patrick Desbois, about “geysers of blood”, or a hand emerging from a mass grave to grab a shovel, or systematic extermination under quilts or pillows (“the Holocaust by suffocation”!).
“@WhiteHouse statement on #HolocaustMemorialDay, misses that it was six million Jews who perished, not just 'innocent people'”
After half an hour we would open the doors and our work would begin. We would transport the corpses of these innocent women and children to the elevator that would take them to the furnaces chamber and from there they would place them in the furnaces where they would burn without the use of fuel because of the fat they contained. From a human around 640 grams of ash only would be produced […] which the Germans forced us to smash, pass through a thick sieve and then a car would take it to throw it in the river near us, Vistula, and this is how they erase every trace.
Author Samuel Crowell, however, refrains absolutely from addressing the factuality of the regnant Holocaust legend, and addresses himself instead to those conditions and antecedents that themselves reigned in the day (years, actually) in which the account was received, bruited about, accepted, and, yes, here and there rejected as it came into being. Taking this entirely novel, scrupulous approach enables Crowell to claim for himself the characterization of "moderate revisionist." He does not debunk; he merely examines and conveys to later generations, those circumstances that must have given rise to the production and acceptance of accounts of the Holocaust.
Christian Gerlach's article, "Failure of Plans for an SS Extermination Camp in Mogilev, Byelorussia"[1] is a typical example of the historically baseless conclusions reached by Holocaust historians due to their technical ignorance, particularly in the field of crematory ovens and cremation.
Hence, Lipstadt finds it essential to deny even the existence of certain well-documented Allied atrocities, and to repudiate any suggestion that America’s role in Vietnam or the activities of Pol Pot are the moral equivalents to the killing of Jews. All other atrocities are relatively insignificant because it was only Jews who were killed as Jews. One might then ask whether the real bone of contention is that more value is put on the life of a Jew than a Gentile, a question that often occurs in regard to Israel’s actions against Palestinians, and one that was broached by another Jewish heretic, Dr Israel Shahak.[30] Therefore Lipstadt considers it unacceptable that historians such as Nolte have ‘relativised’ the ‘Holocaust’ by comparing it to ‘a variety of twentieth–century outages, including the Armenian massacres that began in 1915, Stalin’s gulags, US policies in Vietnam, the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, and the Pol Pot atrocities in the former Kampuchea. According to them the Holocaust was simply one among many evils’. [31] Lipstadt objects that these relativists are ‘obscuring crucial contrasts between Stalinism and Nazism’, because the terror allegedly perpetrated by Stalin, and others, was ‘arbitrary, whereas that of the Nazis ‘targeted a particular group’.[32]
The Holocaust story has also been used to cover up and ignore Allied crimes against Germans after World War II. German deaths after the war can be divided into three groups of people. The first group is the German prisoners of war (POW) in both Europe and the Soviet Union. The second group is the German expellees, and the third group is the Germans already residing in Germany. While no one will ever know exactly how many Germans died from 1945 to 1950, it is certain that the deaths far exceed most traditional estimates. The great majority of these deaths were caused by the lethal policies imposed by the Allies against Germany after the war.
The burning of bodies leaves behind a large amount of unburned bones and teeth, as the official historians of these concentration camps are clearly aware.[33] Holocaust historian Yitzhak Arad declares that the bones of the hundreds of thousands of alleged murder victims at Chelmno concentration camp were “destroyed by a special bone-crushing machine.”[34] Yet, on the next page, he quotes “Holocaust survivor” Leon Feldhendler who stated that at Sobibor concentration camp the bones were crushed into ashes with hammers.[35]
The 24 accused at IMT Nuremberg are handed down their sentences. Twelve of them are condemned to death by hanging. Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring commits suicide prior to execution. On May 11, 58 members of the Mauthausen concentration camp staff are sentenced to death by the U.S. Military Court at Dachau.
The Hawke government seemed over-zealous in its devotion to the cause. Thus, in 1987, well before the amendment bill had been passed in the Parliament, the man who became head of the nation’s war crimes unit, Robert F. Greenwood QC, was travelling overseas to negotiate agreements about the provision of evidence by the Soviet Union and the communist governments in Hungary and Yugoslavia![7]
The “Chelmno gas van” which had been originally a furniture truck and later used for disinfection of clothing was examined and correctly identified by a Polish commission as early as 1945. The Polish experts found no evidence whatsoever that it had served for homicidal purposes. Nevertheless the Polish authorites provided the authentic photos with a false caption, identifying the vehicle as a “gas van”. Here we have the case that, although the photograph is authentic, it becomes due to the false caption a deliberate forgery.
On the ground, ‘news about killing in local fields spread much more quickly than the murky rumors’ about gassing at concentration camps, Dr. Pohl said.
Diels’s evidence exists in two forms: his statement[169] and the interrogator’s notes.[170] The two are compatible, and the latter was probably used to compose the former. Most of the former was read into the record during the Tesch trial.[171]
Why did the Germans use a special “bone-crushing machine” at Chelmno, and then resort to inefficient manual hammering at Sobibor? And if they did use a special bone-crushing machine at Chelmno, where is the physical proof that such a device even existed? Did Israeli historian Arad ever think that the story of the “special bone-crushing machine” is another concocted Holocaust tale, like the “steam chambers” of Treblinka and the “soap factories” that utilized the bodies of dead Jews?[71]
The reason for these calculations was to refute the statements of Germar Rudolf about the impossibility to access the “gas chambers” after a homicidal gassing.
1. I was Commandant of the Concentration camp Auschwitz from 1 May 1940 to the first of December 1943.
Could there have been additional transports of Western Jews to the Baltic countries in 1944, passing through Auschwitz on their way there? It is worth noting in this context that, according to a report left by refugees from Lithuania in early August 1944, an unspecified number of Jews from Belgium and the Netherlands had been brought to Lithuania in June 1944, and as of July 22, 1944 were kept in the coastal town of Kretinga (Krottingen).[156]
Other Jewish organizations are actively working to promote the official Holocaust narrative. For example, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) writes about its Holocaust education program:
The "last crematorium" was Crematorium V, therefore the witness located "Bunker 2" in the courtyard outside this crematorium!
At bottom, all judicial systems have followed the example of the instance called the International Military Tribunal, which, in 1945-1946, assumed the right, as a court of “justice” set up by the winners of the recent war, to try its own vanquished. Its organiser, the American prosecutor Jackson, had declared with a fine cynicism: “As a military tribunal, this Court is a continuation of the war effort of the Allied nations”, IMT, vol. XIX, p 398 – 26 July 1946). Articles 19 and 21 of its Charter read: “The Tribunal shall not be bound by technical rules of evidence [...]. The Tribunal shall not require proof of facts of common knowledge but shall take judicial notice thereof”. Thus did allegations advanced without any proof by Allied propaganda receive the formal endorsement of a strictly Allied – and not “international” – tribunal. Better still, in accordance with the next and closing sentence of Article 21, a whole series of reports drafted by the winners on crimes imputed by themselves to the defeated were to be automatically received as authentic evidence, and no one would be allowed to challenge them! Such were the effects of that Tribunal’s “judicial notice.”
In the run up to the enactment of Article 130, Jewish pressure groups had been actively campaigning to influence passage of this and similar legislation. In April 1982, just one year after Israel’s criminalization of Holocaust denial, Dr. Stephen Roth, the director of the Institute of Jewish Affairs, (hereafter referred to as the IJA), an affiliated agency of the World Jewish Congress situated in London, England, resolutely pressed the British government to introduce legislation criminalizing Holocaust denial in Great Britain. These determined Jewish groups were highly motivated, organized, and well financed, with connections reaching into the highest echelons of government.
As regards schools, governments are expected to ‘develop teaching materials on the subjects of the Holocaust, racism, anti-Semitism and discrimination’ which are to be ‘incorporated into the national school curriculum.’ This has all the hallmarks of a proposal to introduce a national brainwashing scheme. Why is this? Because it is a commonplace that an intense campaign has been in place for over forty years to silence dissident critics of the currently promoted account of the Holocaust. The major organs of the mass media appear to be signed up already for this campaign; and some fourteen or so nations have enacted laws proscribing Holocaust revisionism. A number of Holocaust revisionists have been imprisoned or fined. Some have lost their employment. In general they are regularly defamed in the mass media and not allowed adequate space in which to respond to attacks. Thus it is reasonable to assume that the subject called ‘The Holocaust’ will not be presented in an academic and open-ended manner.
“Right now, your parents, your wife and her parents have already been gassed in a gas chamber, and then they will burn them in the crematorium furnaces. The young have a small chance of staying alive, if they don’t get sick. They will have to work, each according to his expertise, until the end of the war.” (p. 46)
As of November, 2006, twelve European countries have followed Israel’s precedent - Spain, Romania, Germany, Austria, Lithuania, Poland, France, Switzerland, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Belgium and the Czech Republic have all enacted similar legislation which legally proscribes any person from questioning the mainstream version of the Holocaust under pain of prosecution. Aside from widely publicized high profile cases, it is impossible to definitively state the number of innominate victims who have fallen under the punitive arm of Holocaust denial legislation since these laws were first enacted. It has been estimated that over 58,000 individuals in Germany alone have been prosecuted for various thought crimes during the period 1994 – 1999. During the course of one year, [1999], Germany’s aggressive policy of enforcing these repressive laws accounted for 11,248 convictions. Of this number, 8,968 cases were ‘right-wing’ violations, 1,015 were categorized as “leftist,” and the remaining 1,525 cases primarily involved foreigners or other non-German related issues.[3]
There is more evidence that she is possibly being duplicitous when she claims that “color and ethnicity are entirely irrelevant to her.” Dr. Oren Yiftachel, an Israeli professor at Ben-Gurion University, pointed out that Israel is not a democracy in the sense in which it is currently understood in the West. Rather, it is an “ethnocracy” – a land controlled and allocated by ethnicity. In his own words:37
“The Germans need every hospital they have got for their own wounded, so foreign workers who fall seriously sick are just sent to the gas-chamber.”
Der große Trick der Holocaust-Werbeindustrie besteht darin, diese schrecklichen Bilder ausgemergelter Körper zu zeigen und Sie glauben zu machen, dass die Gefangenen immer so aussahen; dass die Deutschen sie sofort verhungern ließen, und dass dieses vorsätzliche Verhungern seit Jahren vor sich ging als Teil ihres Vernichtungsplans. Zeugen wie diese und andere beweisen jedoch, dass die Konzentrationslager manchmal nicht gar so schrecklich waren.
By this time, Jewish lobbies around the world, but especially in the UK and US, began to press hard for military action, to intervene on behalf of their beleaguered coreligionists in Nazi Germany, and to once again overthrow a hated regime—never mind that the Germans may have had some right to self-determination. One of the first clear pieces of evidence of this came in early 1938, from the Polish ambassador to the US, Jerzy Potocki. He reported back to Warsaw on his observations of the American political scene:
As there is no written order for the Holocaust, historians have been struggling for years to find a way around this. Rees concludes with the following:
Born on 25 February 1907. His last place of residence was Berlin. From 1925 to 1933, he was a member of the SPD (Social Democratic Party of Germany), but in 1933 he joined the KPD (Communist Party of Germany). Arrested on 22 September 1934, sentenced to five years in prison, transferred to Sachsenhausen on 30 November 1939. In addition to writing the “Prisoner’s Report”, Bock belonged to the group of prisoners who evaluated the SS statistics about the inmates[26] and compiled name lists.
If hundreds of thousands of Jews had been murdered at Belzec, we could do without “eyewitness evidence.” Irving’s argument reminds me of “Belzec expert” Michael Tregenza who wrote about the pyres of Belzec:
Yet, the Holocaust doctrine and the sociopolitical status quo that it "justifies" contain with it the seeds of its own destruction. The more the German national identity is assaulted with Holocaust falsehoods, the more the German people are financially exploited by this, so to will more and more Germans come to reject the Holocaust doctrine and the sociopolitical order that is associated with it.
There were also discrepancies on the number, dimensions and capacities of the ‘gas chambers’, so that ‘even the official mainstream historian of Sobibor, Jules Shelvis, finally admitted that the capacities of the chambers cannot be determined.’
“Soviet Army officers inspect chambers where prisoners were killed by poison gas.”
[34] Medoff, Rafael, Blowing the Whistle on Genocide: Josiah E. DuBois, Jr., and the Struggle for a U.S. Response to the Holocaust, West Lafayette, Ind., Purdue University Press, 2009, p. xi.
This year, 2018, marks the 30th anniversary of the Leuchter Report, the expert report compiled by Fred A. Leuchter on the rooms at the Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek Camps commonly referred to as “gas chambers.” In this contribution, I will not deal with the merits of Leuchter’s Report, on which rivers of ink have been poured out. In this regard, I limit myself to pointing all interested parties to the critical edition of Leuchter’s reports edited by Germar Rudolf. What I propose, instead, is to examine Leuchter’s professional qualifications, about which many falsehoods have been promoted in an attempt to denigrate and discredit the aforementioned Report.
As time after World War II wore on, enemies of Rothbard's revisionism (counter-revisionists?) began to coalesce and acquire visible identification with the expansionist projects of Israel. Along with Holocaust mythology, their chief propagandistic weapon was the charge of anti-Semitism, always ironic when leveled against Rothbard. In December 1990, such behavior as manifested against Pat Buchanan became so egregious that Rothbard was compelled to pen "Pat Buchanan and the Menace of Anti-anti-Semitism" (http://tinyurl.com/2bdyw9u)[6]. Among many gems, it contains this one on a winner of the Nobel Peace Prize who remains today if anything a more-interesting subject of inquiry, Elie Wiesel:
2) In the drawing of the new crematorium D 59366 of March 10, 1942 (Section g-g), the power outputs of the motors are modified as follows:
The eastward-advancing German army had to deal with a ruthless insurgency in the areas they conquered, much of it by Jewish fighters. At the same time, numerous local populations in Eastern Europe took the opportunity of German invasion to initiate anti-Jewish pogroms of their own doing—frequently involving innocent civilians, unfortunately. In total, perhaps 150,000 more Jews died during this roughly two-and-a-half-year process. But the physical evidence of such killing is so scarce that even this may be an over-estimate.
In a court document prepared for the Irving-Penguin Books/Lipstadt trial in London, Professor Browning put forth his argument as to why human testimony “proves” that the mass extermination of Jews took place at the Operation Reinhardt camps. He admitted that “eyewitness” reports of mass exterminations at Sobibor and other camps are contradictory and somewhat unreliable, but nevertheless, we should believe them anyway. He wrote: “Once again, human testimony is imperfect. The testimonies of both survivors and other witnesses to the events in Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka are no more immune to forgetfulness, error, exaggeration, distortion, and repression than eyewitness accounts of other events in the past. They differ, for instance, on how long each gassing operation took, on the dimensions and capacity of the gas chambers, on the number of undressing barracks, and on the roles of particular individuals. Gerstein, citing Globocnik, claimed the camps used diesel motors, but witnesses who actually serviced the engines in Belzec and Sobibor (Reder and Fuchs) spoke of gasoline engines. Once again, however, without exception all concur on the vital issues at dispute, namely that Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka were death camps whose primary purpose it was to kill in gas chambers through carbon monoxide from engine exhaust, and that the hundreds of thousands of corpses of Jews killed there were first buried and then later cremated.”[115]
But first the basics: The book is unique, the author tells us, in a number of ways. First is its heavy reliance on primary sources—from German archives, of course, but also those of the former Warsaw Pact states, particularly Russia.[2] Second is Longerich's focus on the perpetrators, i.e. Nazi actions and motivations, with a notable de-emphasis on the victims, witnesses, and survivors—more on this below. Third is his detailed look at the build-up and "decision process" that led to the extermination of the Jews. Longerich has made something of a specialty in the study of the "Hitler order" (or lack thereof) for the Holocaust, and he has some interesting thoughts on this troublesome issue.
In this contemporary schedule [...] there are some aspects worthy of note. First of all Auschwitz was at this time still not intended as a destination for transports from the Reich proper. [...] Following the series of transports to Wolkowysk the destination of the transports departing Theresienstadt is given as Izbica from the beginning of October onward. In reality none of the deportees reached the ghettos in Izbica or in its vicinity, if not only as transit camps from where they were sent to the nearby extermination sites Belzec, Sobibor and Majdanek. The destination Izbica thus refer to these sites. However, all of the transports from Theresienstadt during October 1942, with the exception of the last one on the 26th (from the 29th no more departed) with which began the series of convoys to Auschwitz, were in fact directed to the vicinity of Minsk and the extermination camp Trostinetz which is here implied with the station Wolkowysk."[18]
“Back then, what did you imagine concentration camps to be?
In sintesi: la “prova di inserimento” del blogger Faggot 79 di “Edith Lang, nata a Roma” è andata “a buon fine”.“Edith Lang, nata a Roma” è un nuovo numero, in più, nell’elenco delle vittime nella Shoah! Una “prova” in più dei “milioni documentati dettagliatamente” come dice “Faggot79”!
The International Military Tribunal (IMT) at Nuremberg, the 12 secondary Nuremberg trials (NMT) and numerous other trials are repeatedly cited as proof of the Holocaust story. For example, Jewish American judge Norbert Ehrenfreund wrote:[1]
The Diesel engines allegedly used at the Aktion Reinhardt camps of Treblinka, Belzec, and Sobibor also could not have been used to mass murder people as claimed either. The first to point this out was U.S. engineer Friedrich Paul Berg in a 1984 paper.[23] In a revised paper of 2000, Berg stated that for any Diesel arrangement to have been even marginally effective for mass murder, it would have required an exceptionally well-informed team of experts to know and do all that was necessary. Berg mentions that, even if someone had tried for a time to commit murder with Diesel exhaust, after a few tries it would have become apparent that something better was needed. Berg concludes that the evidence for Diesel gassings in the German concentration camps fails to meet the most basic standards that credible evidence must pass to satisfy reasonable people.[24]
The pre-eminent historian of the Holocaust, the late Raul Hilberg, claimed that a diesel engine supplied the deadly gas to “gas chambers.”[19]
2. There were no homicidal gas chambers used by the Third Reich.
The picture that therefore emerges from straightforward analysis of evidence presented at the trial is one whereby suffering, particularly from hunger and disease, was common in Nazi occupied territory, as shown by the report written by Hans Frank, for the attention of Hitler, referenced by Lieutenant Baldwin in his presentation. The debate over how much of this was due to Nazi policy or was simply a symptom of war (or a combination of both) is worthy of discussion, but that will not be joined here. We also know that orders were passed to eliminate those in occupied areas deemed to be dangerous to the Reich, such as intellectuals, political leaders and obviously, partisan fighters. Such policies, when set within the context of the war make sense, despite their callousness. In addition we also know that Jews had been singled out by the regime as the arch enemy. It seems this was for three reasons. Firstly, a long-standing anti-Semitism, whereby the Nazis resented the Jewish domination of German life in certain spheres and wished to depose them from their alleged elite positions. Secondly, because of the repeated agitation of Jewish organizations and the public declarations of leading Zionists and international Jewish figureheads like Untermeyer and Weizman, who called for boycotts and war against Germany from the earliest days of the regime and thirdly, because once hostilities had begun, Nazis believed Jews to be forming a substantial part of the partisan and resistance movements. As a result of these three reasons, a series of policies were enacted, starting in peacetime with discrimination and exclusion from German life. In wartime, with different pressures upon the Reich, the policies became more draconian, resulting in forced deportation and ghettoization. Most draconian of all and admitted to by several witnesses, was that the Einsatzgruppen, during their anti-partisan activities, often targeted Jews, because of their alleged partisan links. The most striking evidence for this was presented in Rosenberg’s case with the letter from Kube to Lohse in which it was claimed that 55,000 Jews of White Russia had been shot, or by the testimony of Ohlendorf, in which he claimed his squad had accounted for 90,000 victims. (Ohlendorf did not stipulate that the victims were solely Jewish, mentioning communist ‘commissars’ also.) Again, despite the brutality of such actions, when placed within the context of the Russian front, the biggest theatre of war in human history, a vast area full of woodland and villages crawling with hostile civilians who constantly attacked German soldiers and supply lines, as stated by Jodl and Frank, one can see the logic. A wartime ethic of kill or be killed saves little room for sentimental ideals of honor.
In those months, the Allies bombed Germany’s entire infrastructure to smithereens, including the supply lines into the camps. Shipments of medicine, sanitation supplies and food into the camps, power plants and water treatment plants were systematically bombed, and in some cases, they even bombed the actual camps. Not only Jewish concentration camp prisoners struggled and perished during the final months of World War II. For months upon months, the German civilian population was the target of an unprecedented fire-bombing campaign by the western Allies. From Hamburg to Dresden, tens of thousands of innocent German civilians were deliberately targeted and murdered. Women and children were burned alive, and terrified families suffocated from poison gas in bomb shelters. They don’t ever show you these pictures, do they? You should ask why, though.
For the Soviet rulers the discovery of the Katyn mass graves was terribly embarrassing. In order to save face, they accused the Germans of having committed the crime themselves. As early as September 1943 the area around Katyn was reconquered by the Red Army. This provided the Soviets with an opportunity to draw up their own “forensic report”. As they imputed the massacre to the Germans, it was only logical that the ESC was entrusted with the new investigation. The local commission re-opened the mass graves, performed autopsies of the corpses, interrogated intimidated local citizens and German prisoners of war and then published the results of its findings in a report. Compared with the overwhelming evidence found by the Germans, the Soviet “proofs” were rather meager, so that they had to be extensively reinforced by ”eyewitness reports“ (a well-tried method). To nobody’s surprise, the commission concluded that the mass murder had been perpetrated by the “German Fascist invaders”.
Here we have some common contradictions to the orthodox narrative. The facility described closely resembles Crematoria II & III, but there, Zyklon was allegedly not poured directly into the chamber but into some contraptions; it allegedly had not two but four openings through which Zyklon B was poured, and observation is said to have occurred through a peephole in the door, not through non-existing skylights. Furthermore, the story contains two physical impossibilities: 3,000 people cannot fit into a space of some 210 m², and ventilation would have had to occur for an extended period of time long before the door could have been opened. But the most egregious mistake in this description is that it seems to imply that the undressing room and the gas chamber were one and the same room.
"Nobody knows the exact figure because records were not kept, but it seems that during a 300-year period between 3 and 5 million women were tortured and killed by the 'Holy Inquisition,' an institution founded by the Roman Catholic Church to suppress heresy. This surely ranks together with the Holocaust as one of the darkest chapters in human history."[9]
All ESC drafts enumerate the various nations citizens of which had been imprisoned at Sachsenhausen. This list was corrected several times (which greatly helped the author of this study to establish their chronological order). The changes made clearly illustrate that the order in which the citizens of foreign nations were enumerated was by no means arbitrary. The first draft (Shn-1) reads:
The statements of numerous Dutch-Jewish deportees also indicate that Sobibor was a transit camp. Cato Polak was deported on March 10, 1943 and remained in Sobibor one or two hours before being transferred to Majdanek. Bertha Jansen-Ensel and Judith Eliazar, who had arrived in Sobibor on March 10, 1943, were likewise transferred to Majdanek. Although they alluded to gas chambers and cremations, they declared: “Sobibor was no camp, rather a transit camp.” Jules Schelvis, who was deported to Sobibor on June 1, 1943, was transferred three hours after his arrival there and eventually returned to Holland via Auschwitz.[11]
The “launch” provided by the Note of December 10, despite styling its own details as “fully authenticated,” was wobbly enough. Larded throughout with phrases such as “As far as is known” and “It is reliably reported,” the Note details the specialization of the Belzec camp in murder by electrocution while assigning the use of poison gas to that at Chelmno. It takes one detail from Karski’s report and relates the use of corrosive chemicals on the floors of railcars to slowly and painfully kill the Jews forced to ride in said rolling torture chambers.
It results from the deposition of the former inmate Zdizsław Michalak that the Entwesungskammer [fumigation chamber] commando was established at the end of August 1941. It consisted of about 20 prisoners, who were initially employed to disinfest Blocks No. 1-9. These were designated for camp section for Soviet prisoners of war. That section was established more than a month later. The members of the commando later disinfested other blocks, but in mid-November they were permanently assigned a new job – at the disinfection [sic] chambers located at the so-called ‘Kanada I’ area.
The same news report quoted London Daily Telegraph writer Herb Greer as likening the past treatment of Demjanjuk to a ‘positive lynching’ in which ‘officials charged with enforcement take it upon themselves to bend or ignore the due processes of law.’ Greer remarked of the Demjanjuk case: ‘During the deportation proceedings the American Government perverted its own due process by rigging a photo-identity routine, refusing close examination by the defence of a disputed identity card, and by throwing away evidence that would have helped Demjanjuk’s defence. Later the American authorities suppressed a cable from the Russian Government that clearly established Demjanjuk’s plea of mistaken identity.’
I didn't know how to get it going. Not knowing what to do, I did everything. One-on-one discussion, newsletters, radio talk shows, newspaper articles, television interviews, books, public speaking, print interviews, video tapes. You name it, I tried it. I became a one-man band. Dr. Franklin Littell, professor of religion at Temple University in Philadelphia and a Holocaust scholar himself, refers to me as a "malicious burst of energy" and compares me to "the adversary who wanders to and fro in the earth and goes up and down in it."
The number of Treblinka victims is usually stated as 870,000. This is the figure given by the Encyclopedia of the Holocaust[20] and which appears most commonly in reference works. To incinerate this number of bodies a total of (870,000 x 160 =) 139,200,000 kg or 139,200 tons of firewood would be required. As Mattogno further notes, a 50-year-old fir forest yields approximately 500 tons of wood per hectare,[21] which means that (139,200 ÷ 500 =) 278.4 hectares of forest or nearly 2.8 square kilometers would have to be cut down, corresponding to approximately 75% of the wooded areas north of Treblinka.
German Judge Wilhelm Stäglich later published an account of his Auschwitz observations in the October 1973 issue of the magazine Nation Europa. Stäglich’s public challenge to the official version of life at Auschwitz brought forth severe reprisals from the German government. Stäglich was induced to resign his job as a judge in Hamburg, his health having been affected by a harassment campaign against him. German authorities also attempted to deprive Stäglich of his pension, eventually settling on a 20% reduction in his pension for a five-year period. Finally, in a crowning absurdity, Stäglich was deprived of the doctoral degree he had earned at the University of Göttingen in 1951.[13]
In 1997, Helena Kubica, researcher at the Auschwitz Museum, published a long article entitled “Dr. Mengele und seine Verbrechen im Konzentrationslager Auschwitz-Birkenau” (“Dr. Mengele and His Crimes in the Auschwitz-Birkenau Concentration Camp”).[1] The author sifted through the numerous documents on Dr. Mengele’s activities at Birkenau preserved in the archives of the Museum in search of documentary proof of his presumed criminal medical experiments on twins. The situation is as follows.
Every single dire warning about the end-of-the-world consequences of global warming has turned out to be wrong, which is not surprising since global temperatures measured from satellite have not risen since 1997/1998.[9] Hans Schreuder wrote: “Despite much rhetoric and research over the past decades, there is still not a single piece of actual evidence that the now-maligned carbon-dioxide molecule causes global warming (or ‘climate change’ for that matter).”[10]
Not all types of evidence are created equal. In general, the less a piece of evidence depends on human fallibility, the more reliable it usually is. In a hierarchy of the probative value of types of evidence, logic, natural laws, and then material or physical evidence reign supreme, while party testimony is the least reliable. DNA tests in court cases of parenthood or sexual abuse are a case in point. Any scientific mind weighing the results of a DNA test against that of the testimonies by the defendant or the litigant in a trial would side with the DNA test. Parties in a trial can lie and err. As a matter of fact, they often do, but independently performed DNA tests are almost bulletproof.
The forensic experts informed the Israeli embassy in Bonn of these initial observations and said that a fortnight would be needed to allow a meticulous examination. The Israelis responded that ‘further examinations are no longer required.’ Dr Werner concluded in his memo: ‘In this case the experts’ doubts are to be subordinated to political considerations’ and that ‘finding out the true facts of the case does not really matter here.’
Regarding the toxic gas, the reader will notice in van Pelt’s book (p. 499) a line stating “… the cyanide degassed for twenty-four hours after the tin had been opened.” For this reason, the author tells us, it was necessary to remove the pellets from the gas chamber through the wire-mesh column before the doors of the chamber could be opened and the bodies taken out. Thus, some 30 minutes after the cyanide pellets had been dumped into the chimney, the little container which was now liberally giving off its poisonous load to the surroundings would have had to be pulled up again to roof level, emptied into a suitable receptacle and safely disposed of. While the supply of Zyklon B cans to the gassing installations has been described by numerous witnesses, no one has ever even mentioned, much less described, this unimpressive but unavoidable second phase of the operation. In fact, witnesses generally agree on the Red Cross vehicle that had, supposedly, brought the poison to the site driving away soon after the gas had been introduced into the chamber.
What has been common practice in most western countries for centuries, isn’t even discussed in Germany. The plans in the works for a general overhaul of the German Code of Criminal Procedure foresees no such change. All that is new, is that the police and the courts are allowed to video-record certain witness interrogations. No requirement for the creation of verbatim transcripts of what transpires in interrogation rooms or courtrooms, nor even the possibility of such as evidence for appeals and revisions is in prospect.
One of the biggest of the big-picture questions is this: Where did the infamous figure of 6 million come from in the first place? One would naturally presume it to be impossible to calculate the death toll in the midst of a raging world war. Even in the immediate aftermath, we would know little for certain. Surely we would not take, for example, the Nazis’ word for it; they would be inclined to either minimize the death toll or, if coerced, exaggerate it. The many camp survivors—and there were many, even discounting “free riders” who were never near any camp—would clearly not be of much help; as prisoners, they would have been in no position to know such things as overall death tolls. Therefore, one would expect a dependable answer to come only from a detailed investigation of all the death sites, including forensic data, mass grave exhumations, autopsies, and so on. This would then be compared with surviving Nazi documentation, photographs, and other evidence. A proper investigation would clearly take months, if not years. Only then could we be confident of an estimate of 6 million.
Many of the minority of Australians who had followed this case were no doubt hopeful that reason and justice had finally prevailed. However, on 4 January 2011 O’Connor did launch an appeal.[44] McCusker, now an Australian of the Year nominee, said that he was appalled by the Government’s determination to extradite one of its own citizens for unfounded war crime allegations. He pointed out that in the past the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions had looked at all the evidence and determined there was no case to be answered. ‘You have to question… what’s motivating the Government to do this.’ [45]
He also describes the leader of his block, a Pole from France, large, always shaved and the “worst man you could imagine”, who beat them every day. Finally, he was transferred to Crematorium III (he refers to it as II as he doesn’t count the crematorium in Auschwitz) where he realized that the rumors were true. He describes the gassings as follows:
“Near the ‘office’ there was Block 25. It was also a barracks where they collected all those women that had gone through a ‘selection.’ Many times they were kept there for as much as three or four days, until they were led to the gas chamber. […] The lists with the names of those that had gone to Block 25 had to be filled, the names had to be written quickly and correctly. […] Here’s another sample of the German meticulousness. Compose the lists with the names of ‘candidates to die,’ with their names written correctly, and insert them into their files.” (p. 107)
The case in point here is an obscure WW2 concentration camp in present-day Croatia, by the name of Jasenovac. The camp—which operated for around three and a half years, from mid-1941 until war’s end—is, by any reasonable accounting, all but irrelevant to the Holocaust story. Even according to the US Holocaust Memorial Museum, only some “12,000 to 20,000 Jews” died there, which means that the camp accounts for, at best, 0.33% of the presumed Jewish death toll of 6 million. Were it not for a recent blunder by the Jerusalem Post, I would likely never have spent a moment on the topic. In the grand Holocaust narrative, there are much larger fish to fry. But the latest gaff gives us a chance to shine a light on the on-going fraud that is the Holocaust. When the Jews themselves put a foot in their collective mouths, we should make the most of it.
Drawing on establishment and revisionist authors, along with a careful scrutiny of German source documents, Crowell deftly evaluates contending claims arguing that Nazi "gas chambers" were (1) facilities for extermination (2) disinfection chambers (3) bomb shelters designed to protect against aerial gas attacks. Aligning eyewitness testimony with the material and documentary record, he sketches out the basis for a rational opinion, putting readers in a position to make their own judgments, without first requiring that they join in partisan warfare. Thanks to this effort we no longer need choose between delusional orthodoxy and strident dissidence, but can simply weigh evidence. This should come as a relief to everyone, while hopefully expanding the number of readers who can move beyond ritual denunciation and actually take the gas chamber debate seriously.
Nevertheless, Lipstadt rejects the notion that this was a “show trial.” The Eichmann Trial presents the arguments of those who believe the trial was legally sound, and argues that the three judges were scrupulously fair (pp. 58-59, passim). “In fact,” Lipstadt avers, “giving the lie to any notion that this was a ‘show trial,’ throughout the proceedings the judges clashed with Hausner (p. 121).” The judges and Eichmann’s defense attorney did expose at least one “Holocaust Survivor” as a false eyewitness, something defenders of the trial will say demonstrates the fairness of the Israeli legal system (p. 99).
Ristic’s rebuttal—“Shame on those who seek to revise history of the Holocaust”—is as poorly argued as it is poorly written. (Though, oddly, the Post website still displays this rebuttal, whereas the original essay is long gone.) Ristic expresses “astonishment” at the “pseudo-scientific and revisionist text” by Goldman, which contains, he says, little more than “a series of inaccurate statements and semi-information.” Ristic is incensed that Goldman dares to cite the ragged history of victim numbers; the Museum clearly accepts a figure in the mainstream range (80,000 to 90,000), though with the opportunity for higher figures in the future. Ristic writes, “As the research of the experts of the Museum...continues, it is to be expected that the number of Jasenovac victims will be corrected... The estimated total number of victims is, unfortunately, far higher than the one that historical science will ever be able to identify with the precise data.” He is anxious to quell all thoughts of a mere few thousand deaths, and he equally seeks to avoid any suggestion that the figure approaches a million or more; as he well knows, both extremes threaten to undermine all credibility about the camp.
When you were on the train going to Auschwitz, did you know that you’d go to Auschwitz?
On March 5, 1979, Jean-Gabriel Cohn-Bendit wrote in Libération: “Let’s strive then for the destruction of those gas chambers that are shown to tourists at the camps where we now know there were none, lest people no longer believe us about what we are sure of.”
Hatred of Germans in Israel was intense after the war. Many advocated a special law barring Israelis from all social contacts with German citizens. However, since most Israelis felt that the Germans owed them massive reparations for the so-called Holocaust, Germany and Israel began negotiating reparations on March 20, 1952. The Luxembourg Agreement was reached six months later and committed the German government to paying massive reparations to Holocaust survivors.[26]
Apparently the wildly unrealistic claims of the first draft (Shn-1) embarrassed even the ESC at Moscow. At any rate, the capacity of the crematoria was not even mentioned in the following drafts (Shn-2 and Shn-3). To make the cremation of the alleged number of victims technically feasible, the final version (Shn-6) resorted to a new trick, increasing the number of field crematoria at Sachsenhausen to eight.
Dr. Arthur Robert Butz writes in regard to the Kraków Institute of Forensic Research report:[10]
We have held hundreds of lectures and scores of commemorations in Boston, Rochester, Burlington, Washington, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Atlanta, London, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Melbourne, and Kuala Lumpur. Our most-polished have been five commemorations in London under the auspices of our UK Director and Holocaust revisionist Paul Eisen, and a team of Palestinians, Jews, and others working with him\. In April 2005 our largest of four London events took place in St. Johns Wood Church.
Naturally revisionists of other histories are exempt from the list of those who might be exposed to public hatred and contempt. When a number of Baltic nations demanded that those who denied major Soviet atrocities should be included on the list, their proposal was rejected. Thus the alleged genocide of the Jews during the Second World War is the only genocide referred to under the new rules, which will still require the ratification of national parliaments as well as the European Parliament.”[35]
Sergey Romanov has published an article on the “Holocaust Controversies” Internet site[66] about the fate of the Gypsies interned at Birkenau, in which he contests both Danuta Czech’s interpretation, as summarized above, and mine. As for mine, in particular, he accuses me of failing to pay sufficient attention to the fact that, according to Danuta Czech, as we have seen above, “the 1,408 Gypsies and Gypsy women” transferrred from Birkenau were “selected from Camp BIIe and from Blocks 10 and 11 of the main camp”. He criticizes both [of us] for allegedly ignoring a series of “Stärkemeldung” (manpower reports) from Camp “B.II/e (Frauen)”, that is, from the women’s section of the Gypsy camp, prepared between 16 and 31 July 1944. These documents were previously unknown to everyone, including Danuta Czech. The report of 31 July 1944[67] indicates the manpower as 3,422 Gypsy women, therefore, the increase in Gypsy camp manpower from 1,518 to 2,815 persons between 30 July and 1 August 1944 cannot be explained by the registration of Gypsy women and men together, as claimed by Danuta Czech.
“September – December 1941. 16,000 Russian prisoners, driven together like cattle, were slaughtered. On the grounds of the industry-department [a better translation of the German word “Industriehof” would have been “industrial yard”] four riding furnaces were standing so that the corpses could be cleared away uninterruptedly. Their ashes became the site for the new crematory. Before these people were murdered they were beastly ill-treated. Music out of big loudspeakers deafened the shrieking of the victims. The Russian prisoners brought into the concentration camp were outlawed. One Sunday afternoon three Russian soldiers were standing near the gate of the camp. A Blockführer suddenly hit upon the idea of opening a window and using them for target practice.
It becomes clear then that "Holocaust denial" is a pejorative term intended to discredit and to impugn the character of someone suspected of having an unpopular ideological or political agenda associated with their critique of the traditional Holocaust story. Expressing doubt about the Holocaust may indeed be the first “thoughtcrime” of the post-World War Two age. In George Orwell’s classic 1984 a thoughtcrime is an illegal thought. The government attempts to control not only the actions but the thoughts of its citizens. Orwell also coined the term “Newspeak” in his novel to describe the newly simplified language and its inbuilt support of the ruling totalitarian regime. The basic idea behind Newspeak was to remove all shades of meaning from the language which would leave simple dichotomies (joy and pain). All nonconforming (nuanced) speech would be classified as “thoughtcrime.”[5]
The supplementary death toll in the “Holocaust by bullets” is being used today by Yitzhak Arad and other historians to offset the diminishing estimated deaths in the German camps. This is one way in which the alleged 6 million Jewish deaths in the so-called Holocaust can still be maintained.
However, this should not surprise us, particularly because the clerk assigned to the register had been instructed to avoid creating any record that attests to the operation of an extermination center at Birkenau.” (pp. 72f.)
On June 28, 1998, an article published on the front page of the Athens News underscored on-going efforts by the International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists, who pressed for a unified response to Holocaust revisionism worldwide. In part, the article stated:
In his famous report, Leuchter claimed that the active ingredient in Zyklon B, hydrogen cyanide, reacts with iron compounds present in masonry to form a very stable pigment called Prussian Blue, as it did in these walls of two Auschwitz fumigation chambers, and that this pigment ought to be present to this day in the walls of the claimed homicidal gas chambers of Auschwitz, where Zyklon B is said to have been used for mass murder. Lipstadt disputes that claim on pages 188-190. We wonder, though, what knowledge or education might permit her to make any statement in this regard. She is a specialist in Jewish history, not in chemistry, and she doesn’t even try to shore up any of her claims with any references to chemical literature.
Irving tried to get the case back on a material footing, but judge Gray rejected his contention that the absence of (venting) holes in the roof of the morgue at Auschwitz's crematorium 2 meant that no mass gassing operation could have taken place there. ". . . the apparent absence of evidence of holes in the roof at crematorium 2 falls short of being a good reason for rejecting the cumulative effect of the evidence on which the Defendants rely." (emphasis added.) Defense witness Robert Jan van Pelt suggested that the holes were cemented in in the fall of 1944. Irving responded scathingly: "So what you are saying is with the Red Army just over the River Vistula ever since November 1944 and about to invade and the personnel of Auschwitz concentration camp in a blue funk and destroying their records and doing what they can, some SS Rottenfuhrer has been given the rotten job of getting up there with a bucket and spade and cementing in those four holes - in case after we have blown up the building they show?"
A minor correction on Lochner, who uses the word ‘evacuate.’ Also, the fact that Goebbels describes as “grotesque” the incident of drowned Jews suggests some minimal level of concern. He clearly prefers evacuation to dead bodies. And one wonders what Hitler’s “great expectations” were about; on the conventional view, nothing dramatic happens to the Jews for a full year from this time—just the on-going transfers to Auschwitz, at about 15,000-20,000 per month.
Venezia was not aware that, according to the official version, this "Bunker" was put back in operation on the arrival at Auschwitz of the Hungarian Jews (since the "gas chambers" of the crematoria were unable to dispose of the victims), therefore not before 17 May 1944. The same thing is true of the presumed cremation "swimming pool". D. Czech states in fact that Rudolf Höss, the commandant at Auschwitz, in the course of preparations for the extermination of the Hungarian Jews, ordered the reactivation of "Bunker 2" on 9 May 1944[74]. F. Müller writes in this regard that "camp commandant Höss first appeared in the vicinity of the crematoria at the beginning of May; a few days later, Hauptscharführer Moll arrived"[75], who ordered the excavation of "five ditches behind Crematorium V". F. Müller adds:
The book The Dissolution of Eastern European Jewry by Walter Sanning is probably the most scholarly study ever written of 20th century Jewish demography, especially in its analysis of World War II related Jewish population changes. Sanning bases his study almost exclusively on Allied, Zionist and pro-Zionist West German sources. His analysis includes evidence given by the wartime U.S. Assistant Secretary of State, the Institute of Jewish Affairs, the American Jewish Year Book, official census publications, and the pro-Zionist Institute for Contemporary History in Munich. Sanning keeps his book as free of emotion as possible in order to contribute to a genuine discussion underlying the charge of German genocide.[13]
1d - List of former inmates of Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen who have committed serious crimes (German heading).
There are other problems with Nadjari’s account, like the illogical and stupid way that he says gassings were managed, but the physical impossibilities alone should have been enough to alert the various major news agencies, and certainly the Smithsonian Institution, that the buried letter lacked credibility – even if it is one of “the most central documents of the Holocaust.”
By the end of October, Treblinka has allegedly gassed some 600,000 Jews—far more than any other camp to date. Belzec has gassed 400,000; Auschwitz a mere 150,000.And yet we only see continuous talk of deportations and evacuations. Either Goebbels is continuing to make up periodic lies for his own benefit, or no gassings occurred.
In closing this section on revisionist personalities, let us briefly mention Bradley Smith, the founder of the Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust. Lipstadt’s chapter on him is the core of her book, but it is also the least substantiated. First of all, as we mentioned earlier, Smith never really wrote anything of substance on the Holocaust, which makes him an easy straw-man target. Next, Smith merely applies the Western ideal of the open marketplace of ideas to a topic where Lipstadt and her ilk don’t want it applied. For decades, Smith has argued that – quote
But Bradley had a combative side as well. It tended to emerge when he, or those he spoke for, had been backed into a corner. I first saw this in 1985, after the Institute for Historical Review had made a humiliating settlement with the boastful Auschwitz survivor Mel Mermelstein, giving him $90,000 and an apology after he had sought IHR’s ill-conceived reward offer to the first to prove gassings at Auschwitz. Now largely forgotten, at the time the settlement seemed even to IHR supporters a craven surrender of the Institute’s basic principles. It was Bradley Smith, as editor of IHR’s newsletter, who sounded the revisionist counterattack, calling Mermelstein a “demonstrable fraud” and a “vainglorious prevaricator.” Predictably, Bradley’s words brought on a new lawsuit, but this time, after a long and costly struggle, the Institute was victorious, and, just as important, was able to regain the unwavering support of revisionists.
After describing what's at stake in the debate, Dalton moves onto the basic complaints of the revisionists: the unreliability of the eye-witnesses, the dubiousness of the six million figure, the strange dematerialization of most of the death camps (along with their millions of victims), the impracticality of the murder weapons, the wartime photos' failure to corroborate the mainstream narrative, the lack of any explicit order from Hitler or the Nazi bureaucracy, and the preponderance of "survivors" who somehow managed to live through the omnipotent, satanic Nazi death machine. After reciting a thorough list of standard revisionist "concessions"—among them the regrettable and atrocious persecution of Europe's Jews, at least hundreds of thousands of whom died—Dalton debunks several "myths" about revisionism. He trashes the clichés that circulate about revisionists: that they are all neo-Nazis, for example, or that they all believe that the Holocaust was some sort of "hoax," the unfortunate vocabulary of which evokes images of tinfoil hats and Luftwaffe exoduses to the moon.
Revisionism of the Holocaust, likely the most contentious field of all aspects of historical revisionism, is quite the same. Today the majority of victims and perpetrators are dead. While it may be little consolation to learn that one’s ancestors did not die through the inhalation of poison gas, and may not even have been murdered at all, the historical record should be correct.
When Leuchter attempted to speak at public meetings in Germany and Great Britain, he was detained and arrested. Held under "investigative detention" in Germany for several weeks,[9] he and his wife were also harassed and detained in Great Britain in an attempt to deprive him of his right to speak his opinion relative to homicidal gas chambers in Auschwitz and Birkenau.
Bernard Marks is a Jewish survivor of Auschwitz and Dachau who says he spent five and one-half years in these camps. Marks was 87 years old when he made this statement in March 2017, which means he would have been at most 10 years old when he entered Auschwitz. Similar to Thomas Buergenthal, Marks survived Auschwitz even though he was only a 10-year-old child at the time.[15]
[14] Faurisson, Robert, “Auschwitz: Technique & Operation of the Gas Chambers—Part I,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 11, No. 1, Spring 1991, p. 29.
[2] Pressac, Jean-Claude, Auschwitz: Technique and Operation of the Gas Chambers, New York: The Beate Klarsfeld Foundation, 1989, p. 481. See http://phdn.org/archives/holocaust-history.org/auschwitz/pressac/technique-and-operation/pressac0481.shtml.
It appears that a sympathetic treatment of Third Reich social and economic policies, a consideration of the era that does not focus on the Holocaust, is synonymous with being “pro-Nazi” and “anti-Semitic.” It therefore becomes impossible to express views on one or two admirable and workable aspects of a regime without being associated with all the other policies and actions of that regime, both real and imagined. To be consistent, defenders of the status quo in the USA should ipso facto be regarded as avid supporters of any and every action undertaken by the USA, including segregation, the injecting of syphilis into Negro prisoners, the My Lai Massacre, ad infinitum.
This transport of July 17 is also the very first one arriving at Auschwitz for which we know with some certainty that not all deportees who boarded the train were registered at Auschwitz, for we know how many were on that train (2000, 1551 of whom were registered). Although Czech claims that an unspecified (hence unknown) number of deportees from two earlier transports from Slovakia were gassed in “the bunker” (July 4 and 11), we have no record of how many deportees were on these trains. I’ll get back to this later.
[9] Rudolf, Germar, The Chemistry of Auschwitz: The Technology and Toxicology of Zyklon B and the Gas Chambers. A Crime-Scene Investigation, Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2017 https://shop.codoh.com/book/the-chemistry-of-auschwitz-en/389/.
“On October 6, I went as usual to work, and at some point, when I saw him through the wires, he told me that everything was fine. When noon had passed, we started waiting anxiously for the signal. We were all nervous, but we had all made up our minds. But at 2 o’clock, as we were working, we heard many cries from the crematorium. This worried me, and in a moment we saw the internal workers coming furiously out with axes in hand, cutting the wires and running away from the crematorium. We were at a loss not knowing what to do, and we stayed there still.” (p. 94)
Although the above listed anomalies and problems pertaining to provenance, document characteristics and contents may not be sufficient to brand the Arlt reports as forgeries, they constitute a number of good reasons to be skeptical of its authenticity. Moreover, even if it was 100% genuine, the killings mentioned or implied in them would cover only some half of Gerlach's minimum figure of 40,000 Trostenets victims. Except for the killings of Jews from the Minsk Ghetto on 28-29 July 1942 and the Slonim Ghetto liquidation, which are corroborated (more or less) by 3428-PS, there exists, as far as I have been able to determine, no documentary evidence corroborating the other mass killings mentioned by the reports, unless we count the 15 June 1942 "gas van" telegram (see the following paragraph) which does not mention Trostenets and only speaks of "special treatment" (Sonderbehandlung). Most importantly, there exists no reliable forensic evidence for any of the mass murders.
Simon Wiesenthal’s “gas van camouflaged as a Red Cross vehicle” is obviously a drawing and not a photograph. Even the politically correct ARC Team refrained from recycling it in an article in which different big vehicles were shown to depict how a gas van could have looked (whilst the authors conceded that their pictures were “not authentic”). Maybe Wiesenthal has not pretended expressis verbis that his picture was evidence, but it was at least a “tacit insinuation” – making people believe something without saying it explicitly.
According to Pelican, a man whom he calls “Schneider” came forward to denounce Tesch.[199] In Pelican’s portrayal, “Schneider” is a composite of Sehm and Zaun. Like Sehm, he denounced Tesch. Like Zaun, he remained with the firm throughout the war, and was to be put in charge of TESTA (Pelican calls it “Chemical Industries”[200]) by the British after Tesch and Weinbacher’s arrest. Pelican relates how “Schneider” informed the war crimes investigators of the progress from the first gases “developed for extermination purposes,” which “made the victims scream to heaven.” One of these techniques was a sort of gas van which operated (somehow) by throwing a gas canister inside. The drive for efficiency led to the creation of stationary gas chambers in the camp showers. The Jews, eager for a shower, would crowd inside by the hundreds, although there were actually only a dozen or so showers. Gas canisters thrown in through a hole in the roof would finish the job.[201]
“My father was extremely well connected, also in non-Jewish circles. That people were being murdered in Auschwitz and in Poland in general was evident anyway. And it was also already known that Auschwitz was very clearly an extermination camp.” (p. 96)
Fig. 5: Photo Composition allegedly showing the “gas chamber at Belzec.” Source: Reproduced by Saul Friedländer , who does not disclose his own source.
The account of the Holocaust that reigns today is itself a historical phenomenon. Many who have given its content close attention and undertaken to verify it against inanimate evidence surviving to later times have concluded that it is antifactual to a degree rivaled only by certain religious myths such as immaculate conception and the divine right of kings.
In March 1946, Bruno Tesch, the head of the firm Tesch & Stabenow (often abbreviated as TESTA), was put on trial along with his Prokurist Karl Weinbacher and the gassing (i.e. fumigation) technician Joachim Drosihn, on the charge that they “did supply poison gas used for the extermination of allied nationals interned in concentration camps well knowing that the said gas was to be so used.”[1] Tesch had been brought to the attention of British authorities by former employee Emil Sehm, who had claimed that while working at the company he had seen a travel report in which Tesch had agreed to provide technical assistance with exterminating the Jews with poison gas. After seven days of proceedings, Tesch and Weinbacher were convicted and sentenced to death, while Drosihn was acquitted.
Stinnett stated: “Seven Japanese naval broadcasts intercepted between November 28 and December 6 [1941] confirmed that Japan intended to start the war and that it would begin at Pearl Harbor. The evidence that poured into American intelligence stations is overpowering. All the broadcasts have one common denominator: none ever reached Adm. Kimmel.”[10]
In fact, we are long overdue for a revisionist treatment of this work. In my experience, very few people really understand what’s in it. The common man, even the well-educated one, likely knows little more than the title and the author. Revisionists who work on the Holocaust or either of the world wars often bypass the book completely, as if it had no relevance at all; most likely, they have never read it. Traditional journalists, academics, and alleged experts frequently display their ignorance by taking passages out of context, overlooking key facts, or simply failing to cite the author appropriately. More generally, the mainstream approach to Mein Kampf seems be rather similar to its tactics with regard to Holocaust revisionism: ignore, censor, or disparage. It is simply too problematic to discuss this work in a fashion that might lead readers to ask tough questions, or to seek out the book itself.
The case of SS-Scharführer (Second Sergeant) Paul Waldmann starkly illustrates the means the Soviet agents resorted to in order to “prove” imaginary figures of victims. Waldmann, who had been a driver for the Oranienburg SS, was sent to the Eastern Front in December 1941 where he uninterruptedly served until the retreat of the German forces to Berlin. On 2 May 1945 he was taken prisoner by the Red Army near the “Zoo” Train Station[12] and transferred to Posen, where he was subjected to routine questioning. The fact that he had served at Sachsenhausen obviously aroused the interest of his interrogators. On 10 June 1945, Waldmann signed a “confession”, stating that the Russenaktion, in which he had allegedly participated, had claimed the lives of no fewer than 840,000 (!) Soviet prisoners. Although this preposterous figure was never put about by Soviet propaganda, it has survived because owing to an obvious error of the clerks in Moscow, it was filed among the Auschwitz documents (IMT Doc USSR-52) where it was rediscovered by Carlo Mattogno in 2003. Paul Waldmann disappeared without leaving any trace; presumably he met his fate in the GULAG. In February 1946, the clerks in Moscow had apparently not yet become aware of their error, because excerpts from Waldmann’s “confession” were read by Soviet prosecutors Pokrovski and Smirnov at Nuremberg and thus became part of the protocols of the Nuremberg trial as well.[13]
The British blockade was taking a heavy toll, and in February 1916, Germany announced that enemy merchant ships, except passenger liners, would be treated as auxiliary cruisers, liable to be attacked without warning. The State Department countered with a declaration that, in the absence of "conclusive evidence of aggressive purpose" in each individual case, armed belligerent merchant ships enjoyed all the immunities of peaceful vessels.[17] Wilson rejected congressional calls at least to issue a warning to Americans traveling on armed merchant ships that they did so at their own risk. During the Mexican civil war, he had cautioned Americans against traveling in Mexico.[18] But now Wilson stubbornly refused.
As for the description of the appearance of the victims, it is yet another testament to Rajchman’s unreliability. All current established “Holocaust” historians agree that the victims at Treblinka were killed with carbon monoxide from engine exhaust gas that was pumped into the gas chambers. As I have shown in another article[18], a distinctive cherry-red skin discoloration – resulting from the incorporation of carbon monoxide into the blood cells (carboxyhemoglobin) – appears in at least 95% of all cases of fatal carbon monoxide poisoning. Why did Rajchman not notice this peculiar cherry-pink color, and instead describe the corpses as either black and blue or lacking discoloration?
“Ich bin hier in Polen im Todeslager Auschwitz, wo schätzungsweise 1,1 bis 1,5 Millionen Menschen umgekommen sind, hier, im Holocaust.”
On 25 May, Jothann drew up an “Explanatory Report on the Expansion of the Waffen-SS POW Camp at Auschwitz, Upper Silesia. Construction of 111 barracks for ill patients“ (Erläuterungbericht zum Ausbau des Kriegsgefangenenlagers der Waffen-SS in Auschwitz O/S. Errichtung von 111 Krankenbaracken), in which we read:
Colls added one further fact on the radio program: the “main area” for graves, right behind the presumed gas chambers, showed evidence of “five graves in a row.” And all five, presumably, are significantly smaller than her largest. This again suggests that she has found only a small fraction of the necessary grave area. The conventional story, and the 700,000 buried corpses, may well have been fatally undermined by this latest discovery. But we won’t know until we see the details of her report—if they ever reach the light of day.
Regarding a., let me quote from an article published in late 2016 in the conservative mainstream periodical Taki’s Magazine. It was written by Jewish activist David Cole, who in the 1990s was dabbling for a while in Auschwitz research. In this Taki article, Cole, who believes in all other aspects of the orthodox Holocaust narrative, explains why he has problems with Auschwitz:[6]
[5] Arad, Yitzhak, The Holocaust in the Soviet Union, Lincoln, Neb.: University of Nebraska Press, 2009, pp. 125-133.
This is absolute nonsense. Fat is flammable, but the amount of fat contained in a normal body is not enough to keep a cremation going in the kind of furnaces installed at Auschwitz. They were neither insulated nor had any means of recovering the heat from the exhaust gases. Without additional fuel, the muffles would have swiftly cooled down, and the cremation would have stopped.
It is difficult to evaluate these fatalities by name. From a letter of the Standesamt Arolsen of May 11, 1979, we know with certainty that the number of certified deaths until the end of 1978 in all German concentration camps was 271.304.
In addition, claiming that certain things are simply not up for debate is also a clear and present sign of an unscholarly attitude, not to say sheer bigotry. Although Dr. Lipstadt admits that there are many aspects of the Holocaust that are debated among mainstream historians, she insists that – quote
The Germans in the dock rose one by one as their names were called. Prickett took only 35 seconds to sentence each defendant. Fifty-eight of the 61 German defendants were sentenced by the American military tribunal to be hanged. The other three defendants were sentenced to life imprisonment. Two of the defendants collapsed and had to be helped from the courtroom when they learned they were going to be hanged.[26]
For years Poliakov had well and truly manipulated the writings of SS officer Kurt Gerstein (who, having “repented” (?), then committed suicide (?)), when not fabricating outright fragments of text to attribute to him. But the judges granted the presumption of good faith to Poliakov. He had been, we were told, “animated by the passionate and legitimate desire to inform the public about a period and about facts of contemporary history that were particularly tragic.” It was therefore appropriate to forgive him for having “perhaps, on minor points [sic!!!], broken scientific standards of rigor without, however, it being permissible to state that he is a manipulator or fabricator of texts.” As for Badinter, in 2006 he claimed that in 1981, when he was still barrister for the LICRA and just before becoming Minister of Justice, he had got a court to rule against me “for being a falsifier of history.” A decision of 2007 restored the truth and held that Badinter had “failed in his evidence” to demonstrate my alleged dishonesty; but, the court hastened to add, he had been in good faith. For want of both money and a lawyer (Eric Delcroix having retired – and being denied the customary honorary membership of the bar), I did not appeal and was forced to pay the Socialist millionaire the sum of €5,000 (his “costs”). But at least since then I have had the satisfaction of being able to speak of “Robert Badinter, my liar, my slanderer... in good faith.”1
"One of the worst death traps seen by the party was a gas chamber at Dachau disguised as a bathhouse. Mr. [Gideon] Seymour described it as a room about 30 by 20 feet square, with 25 rows of perforated pipes overhead. There were no water connections to the showers, but instead the pipes were supplied from the same gas pipes that led to the cremation chambers. … In the chamber walls, Mr. Seymour said, were small glass ‘peepholes’ through which the German guards could observe the dying agonies of the condemned." (9 May 1945, p. 17)
11. Holocaust denial in Iran: Ahmadinejad, the 2006 Holocaust conference and international law
Q. Didn’t you know of the plan of the so-called Final Solution [Endloesung], I mean the plan regarding the final extermination of all the Jews who were reported to the East?
On Tuesday, 7 February, Republicans in the House of Representatives also did not cave in to Jewish pressure but supported President Trump when Democrats offered a resolution that would state that the Holocaust was about Jews, and would call on the White House to state the same.
Fischer spent most of the next eight years in Hungary. He was the frequent guest of Laszlo Polgar and his three outstanding chess-playing daughters, Zsuzsa, Zsofia and Judit Polgar. While the Polgars all enjoyed playing and analyzing chess with Fischer, they eventually grew tired of his Holocaust revisionism and strong statements against the United States government. After a few years they went their separate ways.[xxii]
During the war years, this well-informed journal carried a number of news stories that clash violently with the now established historical picture of the “Holocaust”. In the issue from September 1942 we read:
Deutsche Welle says that the letter was buried near Krema III, where a homicidal gas chamber has been alleged (which according to revisionist findings was a morgue).
Both books dismiss what they call “conspiracism.” Perron defines conspiracism as the belief in “the existence of a conspiracy on the basis of invalid arguments (sophistries, bias) and/or claims to establish the evidence through an unscientific method” (Révisionnisme, 11). At the same time, Perron and Fradin accept that there are real conspiracies as well as imaginary ones.
“Its discovery will undoubtedly give scholars new insight into the politics of Nazi leaders and fulfills a museum commitment to uncover evidence from perpetrators of the Holocaust.”
“Hanging in orderly rows were the clothes of prisoners, who had been suffocated in a lethal gas chamber. They have been persuaded to remove their clothing under the pretext of taking a shower for which towels and soap were provided.”
[21] Pytell, Timothy, “Extreme Experience, Psychological Insight, and Holocaust Perception; Reflections of Bettelheim and Frankl,” Psychoanalytic Psychology, Vol. 24, No. 4, Oct. 2007, p. 646.
Naturally, for H. Kubica, all this was intended solely for “propaganda purposes.”[4] We need only inquire, however, for whom this alleged propaganda was intended, since not even the delegate from the Red Cross who visited Auschwitz in September 1944 was permitted to visit the Birkenau Camp.[5]
Personally, I have never really understood the advantage of the gas chamber over the simpler machine gun, or the equally simple starvation method. These stories may or may not be true, but in any event I submit we are putting out a statement on evidence which is far from conclusive, and which we have no means of assessing. However, you may not consider this of sufﬁcient importance to warrant any action.”
Knowing all this, I was still surprised at how integrated the main camp was into the town. This, I think, is not the usual image we have: the dreaded “Auschwitz death camp” located in the heart of a civilian village. But we have a good explanation for this, of course. Its original function, as a Polish military camp, had nothing to hide. And even as a German camp, when constructed in 1939 and 1940, it was not originally intended, even on the traditional view, as an extermination camp. The Germans were simply making good use of a captured military barracks.
At about the same time, German right-wing activist Manfred Roeder received a sentence of two years’ imprisonment on a charge of “Holocaust denial,” and “incitement of the people.”
But consider that other nagging problem, of body disposal. According to witnesses, neither Belzec nor Sobibor had a single crematorium. Instead they opted for the mass-burial approach: for a full nine months in the former camp, five in the latter. Then they changed their minds, deciding to exhume and burn, in the open air, all the buried corpses—at a rate exceeding 3,000 per day. The incoherence of this speaks for itself.[7]
Since single furnaces or even complete crematories had to be shut down on occasion for necessary repairs, and since the furnaces were often operated by unskilled detainees, one can assume that the actual cremation capacity at Auschwitz/Birkenau was significantly lower.[18] There was never enough capacity at Auschwitz/Birkenau to cremate 4,800 corpses per day as alleged by pro-Holocaust historians.[19]
[34] Reitlinger, Gerald, The Final Solution, New York: A. S. Barnes & Company, Inc., 1961, p. 499.
In Poland, events related to “Holocaust denial” proceeded along a more-sinister course when Professor Dariusz Ratajczak was suspended from his job at the Historical Institute of the University of Opole after state prosecutors received complaints about a book he had authored entitled Dangerous Themes. In this book, the author presented revisionist arguments claiming that the gas chambers in Nazi camps were used to kill lice on clothes and prisoners and refers to testimony from eyewitnesses as “useless.” In addition, the book made reference to mainstream researchers of Nazi crimes as “followers of the religion of the Holocaust” who impose on others “a false image of the past.”
The second is a brief analysis of some entries in the Yad Vashem database by Italian scholar Carlo Mattogno – “Breve nota su ‘The Central Database of Shoah Victims’ Names’ e il numero dei morti ivi riportati/Brief Note on ‘The Central Database of Shoah Victims’ Names’ and the Number of Deaths Reported therein,” arguing along the same lines as Boisdefeu’s 2005 paper.
On 4 June, Wirtz and Birkigt designed plan no. 2521 “K.L. Auschwitz—Bauabschnitt III. Häftlings-Lazarett u. Quarantäne-Abt.” (Auschwitz Concentration Camp—Construction Sector III. Inmate Hospital and Quarantine Section) in which this sector is subdivided into two quarantine camps, one for men and one for women, for 4,088 persons each, and two hospital camps (Krankenfeld), one for men and one for women, for 3,188 persons each. The two hospital camps provided 2 barracks for “surgery” (Chirurgie), 2 barracks for “X rays and treatment” (Röntgen und Behandlung), 2 barracks for “pharmacy” (Apotheke), 4 “barracks for post-operative patients” (Baracke für frisch Operierte) and 4 “barracks for the seriously ill” (Baracke für Schwerkranke)[128].
Still five years after the end of the war, few books had appeared detailing the mass gassing allegations. The main theme of the Nazi atrocity literature was the general ill treatment of concentration camp inmates, regardless of nationality or ethnicity, rather than the supposed extermination of European Jewry. Dachau, Buchenwald and Bergen-Belsen were the names most commonly appearing in Western media, and Auschwitz had yet to step into the limelight of the gas chamber horror-show, as shown by Kleist’s book (“Near Lublin is located the largest of these camps of terror, called Maidanek”).
The statistics only include inmates who were registered in the Auschwitz camps.[…] The statistics nevertheless lack all mention of Jews who were selected for the gas chambers immediately after their arrival.
Not only are Jews more likely to lead in the struggle for human rights for Palestinians, they are more capable of doing so. The anti-Semitic tar brush, which is so often used to stifle legitimate criticism of Israel, does not stick so well when applied to Jews. And the epithet ‘self-hater’ is far less offensive or punishable by academic tribunals. When Lenni Brenner, Avi Shlaim, and even Rabbi Michael Lerner criticize Israel, it is hard to dismiss them as being anti-Semitic.
The “gas chamber-trap door” story of Bahir and Engel has been quietly abandoned by the mainstream Sobibor historians. Historian Schelvis even implies that it is false.[52] Keep in mind that Bahir’s testimony was considered by the German legal system to be very credible, so much so that he testified at the Sobibor trial in Hagen, West Germany in 1965.[53]
Bradley Smith and CODOH were one of the first Holocaust revisionist groups to develop a website in the early '90s. Since that time he has hosted several sites, blogs, a MySpace page, a Facebook page, and participated in many discussion groups and forums on-line.
It has been widely known ever since the illegal abduction of Adolf Eichmann in Argentina that the Israeli Mossad has immense capabilities. Given the fact that Chief Public Prosecutor Fritz Bauer was a Zionist Jew, which should have precluded him from heading the pretrial investigation, it is quite possible that the forces of international Jewry were able to murder Baer in his jail. Conveniently, the Auschwitz Trial in Frankfurt, Germany began almost immediately after Baer’s death. With Baer’s death the prosecutors at the trial were able to obtain their primary objective—to reinforce the gas-chamber myth and establish it as an unassailable historical fact.[20]
Israel may have assumed the lead in enacting Holocaust denial legislation when the nation enacted a “Global Holocaust Deniers” bill in the Knesset on July 20, 2004. This unprecedented law outlawed “Holocaust denial” even if committed overseas or outside of Israeli territory and was passed by unanimous vote. In theory, the law would enable the state of Israel to demand the extradition of any individual overseas for “Holocaust denial.”
Consider the overall “moral” judgments in this whole scenario. According to Lipstadt, van Pelt and the Holocaust Lobby in general, it is “evil, racist and extremist” for white gentiles to be the least bit concerned about the damage that certain Holocaust lies and exaggerations are doing to the European collective identity. Indeed, Europeans and Euro-Americans are supposed to just meekly accept what the Jewish power elite says about the Holocaust, no matter how damaging it is to the European collective self-identity. Yet, it is positively demanded that Jews fight against Holocaust revisionism, so as to protect and vindicate the Jewish self-identity.
“The ‘Holocaust’ is such a gigantic fraud that it is a cornucopia of absurdities.”
Leuchter appeared in court and attempted to have the complaint thrown out as malicious prosecution, but when the clerk received word that the complaint had been filed by the Holocaust Survivors and Friends of Justice organization, the matter was handed over to a judge. Ultimately, Leuchter was legally proscribed from ever practicing his profession in the State of Massachusetts, where he resides.
Black’s statement that Hitler made an open promise to “decimate European Jewry” is also not true. Hitler’s Final Solution to the Jewish problem was to force every Jew to leave Germany. Since Hitler felt that Jews were the driving force behind Communism, Hitler wanted Jews to leave Germany in order to eliminate their subversive influence on Germany. Also, Hitler and many commentators believed that Germany’s economic program could not have succeeded by leaving intact the Jewish power structure in Germany.[7]
Debating the Holocaust, 2nd edition, by Thomas Dalton, Ph.D., Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield, UK, 2015, 323 pp.
Hence, there would have been absolutely no need to build any homicidal gas chambers at Majdanek at all. The bath which allegedly housed the “gas chambers” could be seen by the detainees and thus no gassings could have taken place in secret; otherwise the whole camp would have panicked and the Germans would have had to face a revolt or a mass escape.
https://shop.codoh.com/book/the-chemistry-of-auschwitz-en/389/.
Myth of the Gas Chambers
David Irving is certainly aware of the absurdity of the diesel gas chamber story. At the 1983 revisionist conference, which Irving attended, Friedrich Berg presented a paper which already contained nearly all the arguments adduced in his 2003 article[22]. Irving, who delivered his speech on the same day as Berg, stated:
On this screen is US Army footage taken at Nordhausen, Dachau and Buchenwald. The caption reads:
It was this work on Air Raid Shelters and anti-Gas shelters that caught the most attention in revisionist circles.  While this work excited some, it infuriated others.  What is clear however in a close reading of Sherlock is that this work comprised a small part of Crowell’s thinking and amounts to two chapters of the entire work.  It was these chapters however that were published as stand-alone articles.  Crowell’s research and demonstration for example that the replica of a “gas chamber door” on display at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum is nothing more than a standard gas-protection door for an air-raid shelter goes without mention by the designated keepers of the Holocaust faith.
What is significantly missing from this volume is Irving on the Holocaust, the very subject that resulted in his imprisonment in the first place. There can be no doubt, that except for the hardcore anti-revisionist and anti-Irving crowd that David Irving is not a Holocaust denier. Despite the ruling in the David Irving v. Penguin Books and Deborah Lipstadt trial such a charge is both foolish and inaccurate. Irving has spent his life largely as a biographer of leading personalities of the Second World War and has written incredibly little about the Holocaust. Irving’s Holocaust-related troubles really began when he agreed to be a defense witness for the much maligned and currently imprisoned Ernst Zündel. His statements at this trial in 1988, his subsequent publishing of The Leuchter Report and his provocative comments that followed made in speeches around the world raised up an army of detractors and enemies who sought to bring him down.
The only plausible reason for the increase of the power output of the motors is the following: Schultze revised the cost estimate based on a verbal order which was given to the Topf Company during the visit of Oberingenieur Kurt Prüfer in Auschwitz on October 21 and 22n, 1941.[33] The first drawing of the new crematorium was created on October 24, 1941.[34] Both Leichenkeller, only outlined, do not present any indication of ventilation ducts. This applies also to the plan drawn by the architect Werkmann in November 1941.[35] The first cost estimate of the ventilation system, dated November 4, 1941, was therefore created based on the first or second project, both without any indication regarding the ventilation systems. Essentially, Schultze revised the cost estimate at issue knowing neither the structure, nor the path of the ventilation ducts; but otherwise, he knew all the fundamental technical data: capacity of the air-blowers, total pressure, voltage, cycles, number of the air-blowers.
These numbers are averages of figures found on the websites of two of the most reputable Holocaust research institutions, the US Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C., and the Yad Vashem Museum in Jerusalem.[1]
The question of why weren’t the Volhynian Jews transferred to the extermination camps remains difficult to answer, as we know very little about the details of Heydrich’s plans. The liquidation was planned on a very large scale and it appears that a decision was taken to use a wide range of methods and ways of killing. It seems that the planners of the ‘Final Solution’ believed that in the Ukraine, whose population remained indifferent or hostile to the Jews and collaborated with the occupier, the slaughter could be carried out locally without any reactions or troubles. The killings and the Aktionen carried out in the initial phase of the occupation [of the Soviet territories] demonstrated to the Germans that liquidation on the spot fitted the local conditions. Consequently, the liquidation Aktionen employed the same methods as before, i.e., the removal of the Jews to a site nearby the ghetto and executions in the shooting pits.”[108]
At a time when Holocaust museums and memorials continue to pop up all around the globe – most recently stories speak of a new museum in Rome and one on the Boardwalk in Atlantic City, New Jersey, it should be clear that the true lesson of the Holocaust story is misunderstood and has been misappropriated into one in which ethnicity and nationality override the universal problem. The Holocaust story as it exists today is one in which Jews are the only victims and Germans are the only perpetrators. While lip-service is given to the faceless "5 million others" the story is inherently one expressed in terms of the Jewish and German peoples.
In the fall of 1944, the section of the old crematorium that contained the morgue, the washroom and the laying-out/dissecting room was converted into an air-raid shelter for the SS.[12] For this purpose, the former interior walls of that section as well as the walls separating it from the furnace room were changed – I will address this in more detail later – and probably also the doors, as documentation indicates that the shelter’s interior doors were of a “simple” nature,[13] hence neither gas-tight nor fragment-proof, as was initially foreseen, nor panic-proof, as would have been required for homicidal purposes.12
Winfried Schiller was from the city of Beuten in Upper Silesia. His father was a doctor and had some connections with Auschwitz which was not far from them:
Thus, S. Chasan also located "Bunker 2" in the courtyard of crematorium V.
Instead, I was intrigued and maybe a little obsessed with how afraid I was of admitting—of confessing I might even say—that I no longer believed. I had lived most of my adult life among Jews and with Jews, and some of us were terribly devoted to one another. When I realized I was going to go against the gas chamber stories, a terrible tumult entered my life because I understood many of my friends would feel I was going against them too. It was in that place that fear grasped me and held on.
Another eyewitness who did not see any evidence of genocide of the Jews is Dr. Wilhelm Stäglich. Dr. Stäglich, a German judge, visited Auschwitz several times during World War II as a German orderly officer of an anti-aircraft detachment. Dr. Stäglich published the following account of his visits to Auschwitz:
The distinction between Holocaust historiography and Holocaust literature has long been guarded by scholars and cultural gatekeepers, much as the distinction is increasingly demarcated between the fake Holocaust memoirs that draw scandalous headlines and embarrass Oprah and the presumably legitimate ones whose essential veracity good people are obliged not to question. In truth, such distinctions have never held up well under examination. The uniquely atrocious elements of the standard history trace to germinal rumors which, in turn, served to fertilize a culture of anxiously wrought storytelling. The historians came later to supply a formal foundation to an already-emergent narrative. They ran with the stories in currency, and strived to make the pieces fit into place. Efforts to disentangle the resulting knots are thus complicated, in part by overconfidence, in part by a very human temptation to gloss and retrofit disparate scraps to better suit a prevailing narrative. Caught in the mire, false witnesses simply emote on cue.
Is it not true that, under the Second Vatican Council's doctrine of Religious Liberty, Bishop Richard N. Williamson has the right to express his conscience and opinion on the subject of execution gas chambers in Auschwitz? Why is the Council's doctrine of liberty being suspended in his case?
As we can see, starting with Treblinka, she went through no less than eight camps, including Birkenau. And of course she wasn’t alone on the train. Next is Michael Gerstman, who was also deported to Treblinka before being sent to six other camps:
In fact, the wordings of the various “Holocaust-denial” laws are so strikingly similar to laws in other European nations that one might be tempted to conclude that they all bear the stamp of a common author.
‘With regard to your request of 9.4.1943, I inform you that the Reichsführer-SS has decided that both pregnant Gypsies lodged [at Auschwitz] and their children must receive the food due to the eastern workers. For the children, there is a need to find a suitable middle way according to the regulations on eastern workers.’”[16]
Longerich does not provide any information of how the alleged German homicidal gas chambers operated. This is typical of virtually all Holocaust historians. American engineer Friedrich Paul Berg wrote about the Holocaust literature that “as far as the actual mechanics of the extermination process are concerned, about all one ever finds is an occasional short and vague description.”[44] Longerich never provides even a short or vague description of how German homicidal gas chambers operated.
Desbois then describes the manner in which he received the praise of German researchers at Munich (p. 126), as well as Israeli praise at the Yad Vashem Memorial (p. 126) and French praise at the Shoah Memorial at Paris (pp. 126-127). We are not informed as to whether the notoriety goes solely to the Ukrainian procurers of (alleged) mass graves. And the same could be said of Desbois's relations with the Holocaust Museum in Washington D.C. , which, in its 2007 annual report, reports that Desbois has "identified 700 graves and execution sites" and that it "estimates that more than 2,000 exist [but] have never been found."[57]
In 1986, shortly after the hunt for Mengele had been over, the Czech-German historian Zdenek Zofka wrote these memorable lines about how Mengele had become the center of attention of the Holocaust Industry:[4]
These discrepancies on the number, dimensions and capacities of the “gas chambers” are not trivial. As stated earlier, in any murder investigation the nature of the murder weapon is of prime importance. Indeed, even the official mainstream historian of Sobibor, Jules Shelvis, finally admitted that the capacities of the chambers cannot be determined: “It is virtually impossible to deduce from the various witness examinations and documents how many people were actually killed at any one time in the gas chambers; the numbers given by the SS men and one Ukrainian are too divergent.”[33]
“All too often, it is impossible to be sure that their [the witnesses’] recollections really refer to Mengele at all. It is all too often possible to show that Mengele has been confused with other SS physicians. Almost all the inmates state that they were selected by Mengele on the ramp [to be sent to the gas chamber]. But camp physicians performed the selections in shifts; Mengele performed no more selections than any of the others.” (ibid., p. 246)
Here we have a Dutch-Jewish academic who was recognized by the British legal system as an expert on the alleged Auschwitz "gas chamber" technology, admitting that there really is no physical/scientific evidence to prove that those "homicidal gas chambers" ever existed! The "truth" of the orthodox Auschwitz extermination story is ultimately based upon eyewitness testimony—really no different from a religious dogma that has only eyewitness testimony to substantiate it. Other genocidal mass killings of the past, such as the Katyn Forest massacre committed by the Soviet Secret Police in the 1940s, have abundant, undeniable physical/forensic evidence to prove that they actually occurred.[20]
And besides, during the week preceding the day of the first order for the manufacturing of the protection grates (February 18, 1943), the Topf Company sent the Auschwitz Central Construction Office various letters which also mentioned the ventilation of the crematoria, in particular the days of 11, 12 and 17 (see below, § II). On March 17, Bischoff, meanwhile promoted to SS-Sturmbannführer, notified the shops of the Deutsche Ausrüstungswerke that, in the basement of Crematorium II, the dimensions of a door had to be changed “für eine bauliche Abänderung” (for a structural modification).[13] A few days later, on the 26th, the plan to create an access to Morgue #2 (Eingang Keller 2) of Crematorium II was established.[14] It is therefore not credible that a structural modification of the openings connecting the intake and exhaust of Morgue #1 would have been implemented without any documentary trace. Such a change would moreover have been completely illogical: the motivation mentioned in the Topf letter of May 8, 1942 was in fact unsubstantiated, because Morgue #1 did not incur any volumetric change.
Jewish influence in Germany has resulted in a defendant being assumed to be guilty merely for having served in a German concentration camp during the war. For example, after being acquitted by the Israeli Supreme Court, John Demjanjuk was charged again on the grounds that he had been a guard named Ivan Demjanjuk at the Sobibor Camp in Poland. On May 11, 2009, Demjanjuk was deported from Cleveland to be tried in Germany. Demjanjuk was convicted by a German criminal court as an accessory to the murder of 27,900 people at Sobibor and sentenced to five years in prison. No evidence was presented at Demjanjuk’s trial linking him to specific crimes. Demjanjuk died in Germany before his appeal could be heard by a German appellate court.[35]
In 1982 a court in Stuttgart, Germany, ordered the seizure of all copies of "Der Auschwitz Mythos" (The Auschwitz Myth) by Wilhelm Stäglich, a former German judge. Photo of the first German edition from 1979.
Around September of 1989, mainstream Holocaust historians began admitting that the four million figure was a deliberate myth. According to Israeli historian Yehuda Bauer, the Poles wanted to create a “national myth,” so this “required” that a large number of both Poles and Jews lost their lives at Auschwitz. Polish propagandists intentionally exaggerated the figures, and told the world that 1.5 million Poles and 2.5 million Jews were murdered at Auschwitz concentration camp.[17] Dutch-Jewish historian Robert Jan van Pelt noted the four million falsehood was originally established by the Soviets, and then later used by the communist rulers of Poland for their own political goal of laying claim to formerly German territories.[18]
“From quite early in my interaction with this history I had seen how some people had decided that, because the crime of the extermination of the Jews was so horrendous, it must have been orchestrated and planned at one monumental moment. But it seemed to me that this was a mistaken leap. As I hope this book demonstrates, the journey to the Holocaust was a gradual one, full of twists and turns, until it found final expression in the Nazi killing factories.” (p. 429)
The prosecutors in the 1985 and 1988 Ernst Zündel trials were not able to find any credible witnesses. In fact, the prosecution witnesses in the 1985 Zündel trial were so bad that the prosecutors did not call any witnesses in the 1988 Zündel trial. Even Sabina Citron, a Jewish Auschwitz survivor who originally filed the criminal complaint against Zündel, did not take the witness stand in either of these two trials.[22]
Even more important than the Allied post-war trials were the court proceedings against "Nazi war criminals” in the Federal Republic of Germany. As we have seen, W. Curilla bases his accusations against the Ordnungspolizei primarily on the documentation of these trials. As a matter of fact, it is hardly an exaggeration to say that most of the "evidence” for the holocaust was fabricated by the West German justice. To prove this, we only have to point to the fact that in his chapter about the "killing centers”, Raul Hilberg’s most important source is Adalbert Rückerl’s Nationalsozialistische Vernichtungslager im Spiegel deutscher Strafprozesse (National Socialist extermination camps through the lens of German court proceedings); Hilberg quotes this book, which exclusively relies on eyewitness evidence and confessions, no fewer than 41 times.[21]
Naturally, one may argue that it matters little whether the present official figure of 1 million victims is true and the previous total was not, and perhaps morally there is a point here, but we must not forget that the basic argument regarding Auschwitz is not that masses of people were killed at that site (things like that have happened throughout history, unfortunately, and very much so during World War Two), but rather that, at Auschwitz, the outrageously high number of victims made it necessary for the perpetrators to invent, implement and perfect an industrial way of killing and that this “machinery of death“ constitutes a new quality in the long list of horrors man has inflicted upon his fellows.
6. President Roosevelt gave unmistakable evidence, in March 1941, that he was not greatly concerned with the Pacific Fleet’s influence upon Japanese strategic decisions when he ordered the reduction of that fleet, already inferior to that of Japan, by the detachment of three battleships, one aircraft carrier, four light cruisers and 18 destroyers for duty in the Atlantic—a movement which would immediately be detected by Japanese espionage in Hawaii and the Panama Canal Zone;
As far as we are aware, Arad has never explained this turnaround. It is not directly necessitated by the Höfle document, since this only covers the period until the end of 1942, but it is possibly related to it, as the discovery of said document showed that Arad had overestimated the number of Jews deported to Sobibór from the General Government by nearly 300%.[80] It is clear that no documentary evidence has been found for transports from Eastern Galicia to Sobibór, only vague testimonies.[81] After this cursory note I will therefore dwell no more on this peripheral subject.
French Capt. Julien thought as he walked in the former American camp of 32,000 prisoners at Dietersheim in July 1945, “This is just like Buchenwald and Dachau.” The muddy ground was “peopled with living skeletons,” some of whom died as he watched, others huddled under bits of cardboard. Women lying in holes in the ground stared at him with bulging bellies from hunger edema, old men with long grey hair watched him feebly, and starving children of six or seven looked at him with lifeless eyes. Julien could find no food at all in this camp. The two German doctors in the “hospital” were attempting to take care of the many dying patients stretched out on dirty blankets on the ground, between the marks of the tents the Americans had taken with them.
The rendering of Crematorium II displayed by the Auschwitz Museum shows the “gas chamber” full of victims (Document 36). Pressac was referring to this; according to him, “not more than a thousand victims” are depicted.
Judging by Rajchman’s testimony at the Demjanjuk trial, the memoirs were revised and edited in 1946 by a Yiddish poet named Nachum Bomze (alternative spelling Bumse). This is the only surviving manuscript, and is the one handed over to Yad Vashem and later presented as evidence at the Demjanjuk trial.[7] That we are dealing not with the supposed original text dating from 1944 is clear from the last passage of the memoirs (pp. 155-156):
After ten days of travel, on April 11 we arrived at Auschwitz where we were sent to the Birkenau camp stayed about one month in quarantine and from there they took the healthy and strong. Where? Where? My Metsos? To a crematory, I will explain further on the nice work that the Almighty wished for us to do.
Toward the middle of January, Elie’s right foot begins to bother him and he goes to have it examined. The examination is performed by an eminent Jewish doctor, also a prisoner. The doctor insists on an operation. If Elie’s time-table is correct, we know the Russians are within a week or so of seizing the camp, the Germans are on the verge of evacuation, but the Jewish doctor nevertheless proposes surgery, with no concern for hardship in terms of medical facilities, anesthetics, bandages, etc. Elie in fact tells us he is given a bed with white sheets and “the hospital was not bad at all.” In addition, the patients in the hospital are given good bread and thicker soup.[13] Elie is even able to send his father some of this bread. There is a Hungarian Jew who is there for dysentery, mere skin and bones, but rather than let him die, the Germans are treating him to make him well. All the while, Elie has the chutzpa to again mention selections, telling us the hospital has them “more often than outside.” On hearing this, however, one gets the impression the true significance is that here in the hospital, with limited beds and large demand, only the more serious cases are able to remain. If death is the purpose, why bother to treat in the first place? And yet despite treatment, the Hungarian Jew exclaims “Germany doesn’t need sick Jews”! He therefore tells Elie he should “get out of the hospital before the next selection!” The thought must occur to Elie that if he is being treated, he is needed, and being a thinking person, realizes there may be a personal motive behind the Hungarian Jew’s advice. For in fact he decides to stay. And good thing, too. The surgery is performed the very next day. And when it is over, the doctor is able to tell Elie everything is o.k. He will now be allowed to remain in the hospital the next two weeks, will rest comfortably, eat well and relax his body and nerves. Not only that but he will be up and walking like everyone else in a fortnight. Marvelous news, no doubt, to a concentration camp inmate expecting death at any moment from selections lurking round every corner.
As a consequence, a number of books appeared documenting not only Irving’s defeat but also claiming that quote-unquote “Holocaust denial” has finally been exposed as a pseudo-historical movement driven by ulterior political motives and with no basis in factual reality.[5]
These remarks mean that Leichenkeller I used as a gas chamber had a poorly designed ventilation system and in the case of large-scale gassings [3000 people in 210 m² according to Nyiszli, or 13.3 per square meter], the lower orifices being blocked ventilation would become impossible [a model visible at the Museum illustrates this ‘maximum’ case, though there are probably no more than one thousand victims depicted].
Red Army soldiers lifted 91 corpses from the train, while relatives shrieked and sobbed as their bodies were piled in American lend-lease trucks and driven off for interment in a pit near a concentration camp.
Stop the video to read it, if you like. There is nothing unusual about the statement, except maybe the fact that Jews aren’t mentioned in it. That triggered quite some vitriolic reactions, for instance from Jonathan Greenblatt, the current head of the Jewish Anti-Defamation League. He tweeted on that same day that Trump did not even mention Jews,[4] which triggered a deluge of similar attacks on the U.S. President for not having expressly mentioned the six million Jewish victims of the Holocaust.[5] The White House countered a day later that it wasn’t just Jews who died in the Holocaust, but that five million gentiles were killed, too,[6] who also deserve equal remembrance, referring to an article which had appeared two years earlier in the Huffington Post.[7] That in turn unleashed a series of attacks on the president and that 2015 article, claiming that this “five-million-gentiles” victim figure is bogus and vastly over-inflated. Among those, I may quote here The Times of Israel’s take on this death toll:[8]
There exists an air-reconnaissance photograph taken on 23 August 1944, documented elsewhere. Like the others, it shows no smoke at all over the chimneys but this time, as on 31 May 1944, there is a small column of white smoke rising between Crematorium V and the camp perimeter; this has been interpreted as being proof of the gassing and burning of a convoy of 759 Jews from the Mauthausen camp that had arrived at Auschwitz the previous day. The photograph is clear enough for the size of the burning site to be estimated; the dimensions of Crematorium V, directly next to the fire, provide us with a convenient scale: We see that the site is perhaps 40 meters long and 5 meters wide; whether the wisp of white smoke comes from the whole site or only from one end is not easy to make out. We can also see that there was not much room on either side of the fire; it burned in the narrow space of about 30 meters between the camp fence and the crematorium.
[21] Hans Jürgen Nowak, Werner Rademacher, “‘Gasdichte’ Türen in Auschwitz,” Vierteljahreshefte für freie Geschichtsforschung 2(4) (1998), pp. 248-260.
Conversely, the determined opponents of free expression resolutely sought to seal off these few remaining sanctuaries, tightening a noose around the necks of the exiles, as otherwise-enlightened European nations succumbed in turn to the combined pressure of international Jewish organizations and the German government to outlaw “Holocaust denial.”
Neither the Zionist lobby nor anyone else has the right to use state authority to deny inconvenient facts of history and remain unchallenged. Nor should we attempt to suppress people who make such denials….. This is how we should approach those who deny the Holocaust. They should be met with the facts and arguments in open debate and not suppressed….. This bill is also designed to entrench one view of history as holy writ. All aspects of history, no matter how horrible and distressing to some people, should be open for critical examination and discussion. We cannot rule a line on the study of the past. I really believe that if we do not make a stand on this bill, then the authoritarian excesses will get worse.[65]
It follows that the 40 crates of Zyklon B delivered to Auschwitz in February 1942, each weighing 55 kg, contained a total of (40 crates × 12 cans/crate =) 480 cans of 1.2 kg. Hence, the actual weight of Zyklon B (hydrogen cyanide) was (480 cans × 1.2 kg/can =) or (40 crates × 14.4 kg/crate =) 576 kg.
Here are the handprints in the cement, allegedly created by gassing victims during their death throes. Needless to say, handprints can only be made in fresh mortar, and only insane people would use a room as an execution chamber whose walls had just been plastered.
“There are numerous, puzzling features of the meeting in Wannsee. While mass killing using gas vans was already under way in Chelmno and an extermination camp, Vernichtungslager, with fixed-site gas chambers was under construction at Belzec in the General Government, Heydrich did not connect his plan with their operations – not even by means of cautious euphemisms. Then again, these murderous facilities could barely have handled deportees coming from all over Europe for ‘special treatment’. In actuality, none of the killing sites that took shape over the following months was suited to the purposes laid out by the man directing the ‘final solution’. Nor were many resources devoted to preparing for such a gargantuan enterprise.” (p. 458)
We examined the piece of paper which gave Dr Tesch’s wife instructions what to burn or destroy immediately. It listed a large number of incriminating documents, a paperweight made from a Cyclon “B” container prominently displayed on his desk at home, various other articles, books of a particularly unpleasant nature in the sphere of Nordic puritanism and Aryan philosophy, outrageous publications on subjects like the sterilisation of the mentally ill, racial hygiene, the euthanasia programme and many other pieces of Nazi literature.[211]
“At the Sachsenhausen concentration camp near Berlin, the German authorities have annihilated more than 100,000 citizens of the USSR, England, France, Poland, Holland, Belgium, Hungary and other states.”
A quick look at the entry for “Holocaust Denial” on the popular on-line encyclopedia Wikipedia reveals the prominent placement of a photo of several Ku Klux Klansmen with placards denouncing the Holocaust. The simplistic messages include, “There was no Jewish Holocaust” and “Holocaust Gigantic Zionist Hoax.” While the origin and the context of the photo are uncertain, its purpose on this page is clear – Holocaust deniers are meant to be viewed as members of extremist hate groups.[12] For balance, one might expect to see a photo of speakers at a revisionist conference. But there is none. The photo of the Klansmen is not displayed to accurately convey any truth, but rather to stir hatred.
Any of these beliefs qualifies its adherents for labeling as “Holocaust deniers” in the demonography of those whose office it is to defend the Holocaust mythology. But in the minds of those who address the events comprising the so-named Holocaust as a historical matter, even all of these beliefs fall far short of justifying the epithet, consigning the label itself to the same bestiary occupied by the vampire and the werewolf, where it belongs.
“It is troubling and unfortunate that the administration did not acknowledge and honor the six million Jews murdered by the Nazi regime in the Shoah.” (JTA, 9 February 2017)
Grubach summed up his rebuttal of Judge Matia’s 2002 ruling: ‘The traditional extermination story at Sobibor has no authentic war-time documentation to support it, nor does it have any forensic or physical evidence to prove it. It is based exclusively upon the testimony of former Sobibor inmates and the post-war testimony of former German and Ukrainian soldiers who served at Sobibor….. Even if it is proved that Demjanjuk served as a guard at Sobibor, there is no evidence he ever contributed to the process by which Jews were murdered in “gas chambers” – because there is no credible evidence the “gas chambers” of Sobibor ever existed….. there is no credible evidence that he ever harmed a single person. Recently a Canadian court ruled in a similar case… that Ukrainian-born Wasyl Odynsky’s citizenship should not be revoked, even though he served at the German forced labour camp of Trawniki. Odynsky served as a perimeter guard, and the Federal Court of Canada ruled there is no evidence he harmed a single person. The same could be true for John Demjanjuk….. What Matia and the official history assert about Sobibor being an extermination camp is based upon the grossly unreliable testimony of former Sobibor inmates and the equally unreliable testimonies of German soldiers that were given years after the events in question and in grossly unfair courts.’
Reading this one could assume that the statistical picture of the Jewish catastrophe painted by the surveyors is roughly congruent with later Holocaust historiography as far as the victim numbers and their distribution are concerned. After all, more than a year of Holocaust still remained at the time of publication. However, if we proceed to the table entitled "How they died" at the end of this chapter (p. 307), we encounter some real surprises:
"You missed something by not going to school," he says. "It shows in everything you write. Your thinking is disorderly and incomplete. How can anyone who is well-read take you seriously? You don't understand the logic of language. You have no formal intellectual training. Educated people understand that when they read you. When you write about the Holocaust from an intellectual perspective they know you're in over your head."
So, here we seem to have a case where a prominent Jew, the late Simon Wiesenthal, inflated the number of Holocaust victims for political purposes.
Hierarchic pyramid of the probative value of types of evidence, with the most reliable at the top.
“Another 1,500 Gypsies – men, women and children -- were housed in Blocks 10 and 11 of the main camp. These people, after the failed SS attempt to liquidate the Gypsies, were selected from the BIIe Gypsy family camp at Birkenau. The ones selected were to be transferred to other concentration camps within the Reich.”[68]
Cohen, a firm believer in the traditional version of the Holocaust, still highlighted the exaggerations in the story. Buried in a footnote he writes; “It seems that the Zionist figure of 60,000 per day, should in fact have been 6,000.”[52] As of the date of this writing, even anti-Revisionist Holocaust historians would point out that the figure of 1,500,000 Jews being murdered at Auschwitz-Birkenau is another exaggeration of around 540,000 deaths! Robert Jan van Pelt, widely considered to be a contemporary expert on the alleged mass murder of Jews at this concentration camp, wrote in 2002 that total number of Jewish deaths at the site was 960,000.[53] The important lesson here is this: we have evidence from a respected academic source that, during the war, Churchill was being handed exaggerated atrocity information, to say the very least.
Rudolf Höss’s desperate flights of fancy, however, inhabit a very different domain. Upon the strength, largely, of the sworn testimony of Obersturmführer Höss, a legend has arisen to challenge such as the Immaculate Conception of Christ, the Parting of the Red Sea, even the bearing of the entire earth upon the mighty shoulders of Atlas. And this body of legend has teeth: since 1952, Germany has paid over $89 billion to victims of the Holocaust. Israel continually invokes this Holocaust, attested to by Rudolf Höss and many others under similar duress and, like Höss, subsequently executed for their troubles, in expiation of the atrocities Israel visits upon the luckless inhabitants of Palestine in the Jewish state’s relentless drive to conquer Lebensraum in the Holy Land for the Jews of today and tomorrow.
The DDR did not at any stage establish diplomatic relations with Israel. The DDR also adamantly refused to pay any reparations to Israel or “Holocaust survivors.”
Such an explanation would be entirely unsatisfactory, however. If the Allies had felt in some way complicit in this crime and wished to brush it under the carpet, then surely it would not have been mentioned at all. The fact that the Holocaust did come up, in some form, in the indictment, but was a secondary issue, suggests other possibilities.
Indeed—every war is a ‘holocaust.’ Norris then encapsulated his view with a most striking line: “We are going into war upon the command of gold.” And everyone knew who held the gold.
The subsequent delivery of death lists by the Russian authorities to the Auschwitz Museum has brought the number of deaths for this camp up from 52,389 to 68,864, which doesn’t change anything in the big picture. There’s no general data about the ghettos. For Warsaw, among the larger ones, there are about 10,000 documented names of deceased persons, for Lodz perhaps about 47,000 in total and for Theresienstadt about 34,000 in total. Adding any possible death lists from other ghettos, one would hardly arrive at 350,000.
“In the afternoon, an empty train was prepared at the Birkenau railway ramp. 1,408 Gypsy men and women selected from Camp BIIe and from Blocks 10 and 11 of the main camp were removed from Auschwitz Concentration Camp [Birkenau]. These were to remain alive, and were therefore transferred to other concentration camps. The departing inmates said goodbye through the fence to those remaining in Camp BIIe. The train departed the ramp at Birkenau towards 7 P.M. In the train were 918 men, including 105 young people aged 9 to 14, and 490 women. The destination of the train was Buchenwald Concentration Camp. On 3 - 4 August, 1,408 Gypsy men and women were still registered on the labor deployment list of Auschwitz II [Birkenau], with the notation that they were being transferred to another camp. These were deleted from the camp labor force only after receipt of confirmation of their arrival at Buchenwald. [...].
In addition to numerous Jewish survivors of Auschwitz-Birkenau I have met, it is amazing how many survivors of these camps are mentioned in pro-Holocaust books and other mainstream sources. This article will discuss some of these Jewish survivors and other eyewitnesses who prove that genocide did not take place at Auschwitz-Birkenau.
Despite the prosecution’s best efforts, the EZS argument consistently failed to persuade competent observers. The gassing technicians to whom it was put invariably rejected it, the only exceptions being in those cases where the technicians were given erroneous information concerning the size of Auschwitz.[105] Tesch rejected it, as did Weinbacher[106] and Drosihn, the latter even under the assumption that the Zyklon sent to Auschwitz cannot have been used for disinfecting barracks, but only in gas chambers or homicidally:
It is obvious that for the “conversion” of the disinfestation plant into a homicidal one asserted by Kranz there is not even the shadow of any documentary evidence. While it may be conceivable that a disinfestation chamber could have been used for homicidal purposes, Mattogno has provided a very detailed demonstration of the fact that this was not the case at Majdanek because, for structural reasons, these rooms could not be used for homicidal purposes. If Kranz does not attempt to refute Mattogno’s arguments even though he summarized our book correctly in his article of 2005, it can only mean there is nothing with which to refute in this case.
It may be reasonably inferred that Varela’s unapologetic admiration for Adolf Hitler and the policies of the Third Reich played a crucial role in his prosecution and to date Varela is the only known individual to be tried under Spain’s ambiguously worded ‘genocide law.’ One will search in vain for a similar case being filed against left-wing activists who deny, minimize, apologize for or trivialize Bolshevism’s murderous persecution of Christianity or Stalin’s program of mass extermination of the Ukrainians.
Further to the “judicial notice” that the tribunals took regarding who was guilty of what, and why, was a blanket allegation of “constructive conspiracy,” in which any person who took any part in any function of any suspected camp or other such operation was held to be guilty of the alleged genocidal enterprise, even if he were able somehow to prove actual unawareness of the enterprise, and entirely aside from whether his duties entailed killing, sustaining, or having nothing whatsoever directly to do with the putative victims.[6]
Hier ist ein Hinweis. Diese Aufnahme wurde am 25. Oktober 2017 gemacht, und zwar von der Website des United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Sucht man deren Videoarchiv nach dem Begriff “Gaskammer” ab, so ist dieses Video das erste Ergebnis. Es trägt den Titel “Exhumierung; Inspektion von Gaskammern; Lt. Hodges.”
There is one document that is so important to van Pelt that parts of it are shown on the paper cover of his book; an English translation is given on p. 209f. It is the Zentralbauleitung reference copy (carbon copy?) of a letter written on 29 January 1943 to Kammler, a high-ranking SS-officer in Berlin, on the subject of the advancement of the construction works at Crematorium II. For van Pelt, the importance of this document resides in the fact that it explicitly mentions the designation “Vergasungskeller” for one of the underground morgues. This, he claims, is a telltale slip with a profound meaning.
In July, Oscar-winning director Oliver Stone commented that Hitler's actions during World War Two should be put "into context." This comment along with the assertion that "Jewish domination of the media" has prevented an honest discussion about the Holocaust landed the "JFK" director in hot water. The comments occurred during an interview in which Stone was promoting his new Showtime television series, "A Secret History of America."
Still, Truman's multiple deceptions and self-deceptions are understandable, considering the horror he unleashed. It is equally understandable that the US occupation authorities censored reports from the shattered cities and did not permit films and photographs of the thousands of corpses and the frightfully mutilated survivors to reach the public.[9] Otherwise, Americans – and the rest of the world – might have drawn disturbing comparisons to scenes then coming to light from the Nazi concentration camps.
In conjunction with Mr. Lawrence’s public statements, the IJA had drafted a report underlining Jewish disquietude over the worldwide impact of Holocaust revisionism and set forth the Institute’s proposals to the British government on how best to counter and stifle the expanding influence of revisionist historians. Conspicuously ignoring Israel’s precedent in first outlawing Holocaust denial, Dr. Roth sagaciously redirected attention toward the West German Ministry of Justice, which was proposing to amend the German Criminal Code to make it a punishable offense to “deny the facts of a committed or attempted genocide or to make it appear harmless.”[3] Whereupon Dr. Roth blithely suggested, “This is a major initiative which we in this country should emulate.”[4]
It can be immediately noted that, in the Holocaustic prospective, the alleged increase of the capacity of the air-blowers in no case could have had any criminal implication, or rather it could not have borne any relation to the alleged transformation of a normal morgue room into a homicidal gas chamber. This results irrefutably from the fact that the increase of the power output of the motors was foreseen by Schultze on March 10, 1942; a date preceding by many months the date of the alleged idea to transform the “B”-Raum, the future Morgue #1, into a homicidal gas chamber. It results, therefore, that the modifications concerned only a normal hygienic-sanitary facility, such as a crematorium.
These and other eyewitness stories of lampshades being made from human skin have been quietly dropped by supporters of the Holocaust story. Gen. Lucius Clay, military governor of the American Zone of occupied Germany, stated with regard to the case of Ilse Koch, “There is no convincing evidence that she selected inmates for extermination in order to secure tattooed skins or that she possessed any articles made of human skin.”[6] Years later in an interview about the material used in the lampshades, Gen. Clay stated: “Well, it turned out actually that it was goat flesh. But at the trial it was human flesh. It was almost impossible for her to have gotten a fair trial.”[7]
In the next few paragraphs I intend to show first how the myth of the Six Million Jews supposedly killed or otherwise deceased during the Second World War was born, then through what lies it came to be endorsed – thanks to its particular lying inventor – by the International Military Tribunal (IMT) of Nuremberg and, finally how, in 1987, I personally managed, in the presence of a witness, to confound former SS officer Wilhelm Höttl for having given false testimony by stating in writing and under oath that he had gotten that figure from the mouth of Adolf Eichmann himself.
Likewise, the Holocaust is no recent invention, nor is victimology, Jewish or otherwise. It has been abundantly demonstrated in these pages how both the mantra of the Holocaust and the magic number of Six Million preceded the conflict between Germany’s National Socialists and Jewry by decades. The entire basis of Christianity is in fact a (single) martyrdom, since claimed by latter-day millions, and martyrdom maintains an especially prominent position in today’s Islam where it is most embattled.
This harebrained artifact of “Holocaustology” appeared in the testimonies of his companions in misfortune.
On January 16, 1985, at the first Ernst Zündel trial in Toronto, Raul Hilberg confirmed that he said these words.[18] Thus, Hilberg states that the genocide of European Jewry was not carried out by any plan or order, but rather by a literally incredible mind-reading among far-flung German bureaucrats.
“…An insidious plot was being fomented by various Jewish groups, mainly the Holocaust Survivors and Friends in Pursuit of Justice, headed by Shelly Shapiro and based in Latham, New York, and its parent organization, the Beate Klarsfeld Foundation, headed by Beate Klarsfeld and based in Paris. Additionally, the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith joined, forming a rather unholy and anti-American trinity.”[7]
The extension of the plan to Crematorium II is confirmed by a questionnaire (Fragebogen) on the Birkenau crematoria, undated, drawn up by Bischoff in June 1943, in which it is stated that it was planned to use the discharge gases from the chimneys „for bathing installations in Crematoria II and III” (für Badeanlagen im Krema. II u. III)[123].
Holocaust historian Leon Poliakov pointed out in the late 1970s that there are no documents to prove that the Nazis ever had any plan to murder the Jews of Europe. He wrote: "[T]he campaign to exterminate the Jews, as regards its conception as well as many other essential aspects, remains shrouded in darkness. Inferences, psychological considerations, and third- or fourth-hand reports enable us to reconstruct its development with considerable accuracy. Certain details, however, must remain forever unknown. The three or four people chiefly involved in the actual drawing up of the plan for total extermination are dead and no documents have survived; perhaps none ever existed."[1] In short, the "evidence" that "proves" the existence of an alleged Nazi plan to exterminate the Jews is simply the guesswork of Holocaust historians. Hard documentary proof is missing.
“Outside these ‘common sense’ reactions to instances of denial, virtually every serious scholarly study of the Nuremberg evidence and its implications is able to provide a mass of reasons discrediting Holocaust denial.” (ibid.)
A challenge to the legislation was later made in the Australian High Court.[8] It was narrowly lost in August 1991 by a 4-3 decision. This enabled cases to be brought against three suspects. Ivan Polyukhovich went on trial on 28 October of that year and was found not guilty in May 1993. The charges against Heinrich Wagner were later withdrawn ‘because of ill health’. A third case against Mikolay Berezowsky was withdrawn because there was ‘insufficient evidence for a trial.’[9] The farcical nature of some stages in these legal proceedings was exemplified by an incident during the first stages of the prosecution of Berezowsky. "A 78 year-old witness was asked to identify the accused. Instead of doing so, the witness confidently put his glasses on and pointed to a 76 year-old Texan lawyer, Mr Robert Caswell, who was seated in the public gallery about ten yards from Berezowsky!"[10]
After stressing the need to release German and foreign civilian workmen from the armaments plants whose staff was not complete (to fill the gaps existing in other similar plants) and to replace them with concentration camp inmates, Pohl continues:
The organizations in question were the Federation of Swiss Jewish Communities, the League against Racism and Anti-Semitism and an organization entitled ‘Les Fils et Filles des Deportes Juifs de France,’ the latter claiming to represent sons and daughters of Jewish deportees from France during the Second World War. Serge Klarsfeld, a widely recognized “Holocaust” activist, serves as president of the latter organization and was personally present at the trial of Amaudruz.
In summary, Zentai stands charged with a specific act of murder, understood as a war crime in the overall context of the Holocaust, and with other non-specified acts of violence against Jews.
Tesch’s account of the Sachsenhausen delousing chambers is supported by a number of other sources. In a December 1945 statement made in the context of Tesch’s trial, the managing director of DEGESCH, Dr. Gerhard Peters, confirmed Tesch’s statement that there were four 10-cubic-meter gas chambers at Sachsenhausen,[8] a statement he repeated in a 24 February 1947 affidavit.[9] More importantly, in an October 1947 interrogation, not only did Peters affirm that there were four (delousing) gas chambers at Sachsenhausen, but also was questioned about Areginal gas, and confirmed that due to the scarcity of Zyklon B, Areginal gas had been introduced for delousing at Sachsenhausen.[10] Still further support comes from an interrogation of Tesch and Stabenow employee Erika Rathcke, who mentioned that a doctor at the SS disinfestation school at Sachsenhausen had performed experiments with Areginal.[11]
As a final note, Terry was supposed to publish the book Auschwitz: The Practice of Extinction in 2016. So far it appears on Amazon UK with no price and as “Currently Unavailable.” Of course, we'll be here if and when it eventually becomes available. Until then, so much for the properly trained historian Dr. Terry.
“Eisenhower, when he first encountered concentration camps, was shocked and surprised. He hadn’t been told about it. His immediate reaction was, ‘This is so horrible that there will inevitably become a revisionist movement some day to say ‘this never happened; this is propaganda; this is a figment of wartime imagination,’ so he insisted that every GI who could be marched through those camps and he said ‘bring your cameras with you.’”
[7] Interview with Lucius Clay, 1976, Official Proceeding of the George C. Marshall Research Foundation. Quoted in Weber, Mark, "Buchenwald: Legend and Reality," The Journal of Historical Review, Winter 1986-87, Vol. 7, No. 4, pp. 406-407.  See also Smith, Arthur Lee, Lucius D. Clay, An American Life, New York: Henry Holt and Company, 1990, p. 301.
I should add that the estimate of the coke consumption of the Birkenau crematoria drawn up by a civilian employee of the Auschwitz Zentralbauleitung on 17 March 1943 presupposed that the ovens would function 12 hours a day[216].
Much weight is attributed to the alleged fact that the killing procedure had two distinct phases – one of undressing and one of gassing. There is general agreement among all concerned that the delousing operation to which incoming detainees were subjected did indeed involve two steps – undressing and showering – but when reflecting on the difficult operation of moving thousands of naked people through underground chambers one wonders why the SS would really want to make things so difficult for themselves.
[24] Mattogno, Carlo, The Bunkers of Auschwitz: Black Propaganda versus History, Chicago: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2004, p. 48. See http://vho.org/dl/ENG/tboa.pdf.
While Tooze’s other works do not examine the causes, effects, and contexts of the Holocaust in anything like the depth that this work must, and does, it is fascinating to note that Cambridge University, at which Tooze taught until he moved to Yale in 2009, has hosted on its Web site a lecture given by the professor in 2008 titled “New Perspectives on the Holocaust.” The entire one-hour lecture was videotaped and evidently at some point was available for download in four parts, still to be seen at http://www.historycambridge.com/default.asp?contentID=926. But all my efforts to actually view this lecture have been met with a blank screen. Just what this lecture might have contained, and why it is now so mysteriously unavailable, one can best imagine only after reading The Wages of Destruction.
Let us take a look at Kranz’s evidence for the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Majdanek. Early into his article, he writes:
The Medico-Legal Commission of Experts consisting of Academician Burdenko, of the Extraordinary State Commission, Doctor of Medicine Professor Smolyaninov and Doctor of Medicine Professor of Forensic Medicine Chervakov, has established that the German scoundrels exterminated peaceful residents and Soviet prisoners of war by hunger and work beyond human strength, poisoned them with carbon monoxide and shot them. Investigation has revealed that in Minsk and its outskirts the Hitlerites exterminated about 300,000 Soviet citizens, excluding those burned in the incinerator.”[16]
“Each crematory was housed in a building containing three floors. On the lowest level there were two large rooms internally connected by a metal door. In the first room there was a large cabinet filled with soap. Alongside there were about 150 showers, one foot apart. It was the infamous gas chamber. No one ever came out of there alive, nor did you ever hear of anyone being rescued by a miracle. At the far end of the hallway there was a moveable door that led to a lift, connecting it to the floor above.”
Current Jewish history is deeply rooted in Auschwitz as the general symbol of the destruction of the Jewish people during the Holocaust. For someone whose past is rooted in Auschwitz, the experience of reading through the revisionists’ tortured logic and documentation is similar to the psychologically disorienting experience of sensory deprivation experiments or solitary confinement in prison, where one loses touch with reality. The insidious effect of reading this [Holocaust revisionist] literature is to lose one’s identity as a survivor and, more generally, as a Jew. Therefore, the revisionist allegations serve to dispossess the Jews from their history and in doing so, in seeking to destroy a people’s history, a symbolic genocide replaces a physical one.
[23] Rudolf, Germar, The Rudolf Report: Expert Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz, Washington, D.C.: The Barnes Review, 2011, p. 218.
Tesch’s lawyer also sought to call for the testimony of additional scientists as character witnesses, including the Nobel laureate Otto Hahn.[133] Such gambits were tried by any number of accused Germans, and rarely did much good. A highly favorable personal letter from Léon Blum did nothing to prevent Dr. Schiedlausky from being sentenced to death at the British Ravensbrück trial.[134] British agent Sigismund Payne Best’s highly sympathetic account of Sachsenhausen commandant Anton Kaindl[135] did nothing to prevent the British from transferring Kaindl to Russian hands and to his death in imprisonment. Even more futile was Kurt Eccarius’s wife’s attempt to aid her husband by providing his former prisoner Martin Niemöller as a witness to his character: by the time she wrote, he had already been turned over to the Russians.[136]
[53] Roland, Marc, “Poland’s Censored Holocaust,” The Barnes Review in Review: 2008-2010, pp. 132-133.
Curtis mentions two Belgian laws which prompted Google to engage in censorship. One is “against racism and xenophobia” and one “against public denial of the Holocaust.” The latter “bans utterances that deny, grossly minimize, attempt to justify or approve the genocide committed by Nazi Germany during World War Two.” It is highly likely that both laws are fundamentally unjust and that they impinge excessively and wrongfully on intellectual freedom. “Racism” is a highly prejudicial term; and “xenophobia” may well have been employed to enable censorship of anti-immigration theses. The second law plainly intrudes on public debate by taking as fact (“the genocide committed by Nazi Germany”) an assertion that is strongly disputed by Holocaust revisionists. Again, it is highly likely that research would show that such laws were imposed as the result of pressure by those who promote the current view of the relevant period of history.
“did not know the reason, they cried when they were told that they were going to take a shower and they went ignorant towards death. Until today […] said they are for the oven […] tell them lies I would only say I did not understand the language they speak and to the people, men and women that I saw were doomed, would say the truth. After […] all naked they walked to the chamber of death. In there the Germans had placed pipes on the ceiling […] to make them think they prepare the shower. With whip in hand the Germans forced them to pack so it fits as many as possible, a real sardine can of humans, then they closed the door hermetically. The gas cans would come with the car of the Germ. Red Cross with two S.S. […] They are gas men who through some”
1)   The Kraków Institute of Forensic Research published results in 1994 that claimed not to have understood how it was possible for Prussian Blue to have formed in walls as a result of their being exposed to hydrogen-cyanide gas. The researchers therefore adopted methods that excluded Prussian Blue and similar iron/cyanide compounds from their analyses. Their assumptions made it practically impossible to distinguish between rooms massively exposed to hydrogen cyanide and those which were not: all would have a “cyanide residue” of close to zero. The Kraków researchers concluded from their deliberately crippled analyses that, since the gas chambers and delousing facilities all had similar amounts of cyanide residues, humans were gassed in the gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau.[4]
Lipstadt thinks it’s outrageous that Irving believes there are actually two points of view on World War II history. There is only one point of view, she hectors. But don’t the best parents and teachers convey to their youthful charges the truism that there at least two sides to every issue? Yet in Lipstadt’s inquisitorial, claustrophobic “Holocaust” world, there can only be one.
“Over the next hour the men of Field Security Section 92 were assembled and briefed on the operation. Many of them were German Jews like Hanns, from the Pioneer Corps – men who had been driven out of their country and who had lost family members in Auschwitz. Some had kept their original names, such as Kuditsch and Wiener. Others had taken on British-sounding names, like Roberts, Cresswell and Shiffers. There were also English-born soldiers from Jewish families, similarly enraged, men such as Bernard Clarke, from the south coast, and Karl ‘Blitz’ Abrahams, from Liverpool.”
6. It is most interesting to see academic colleagues say, “(a)s we all know ... the term ‘ethnic cleansing’ was introduced to make genocide sound more palatable.” That means they either deny that Palestinians have been (and continue to be) ethnically cleansed or they agree that Israel is performing genocide on the Palestinian people.
The Soviet technical report, however, is clearly not a faithful and accurate account of the Sachsenhausen delousing plant. No matter how one interprets it, it is unquestionable that the report contains inaccuracies. For example, the technical report claimed that the system used Zyklon A, which (they said) contained 30% liquid hydrogen cyanide.[16] In fact, Zyklon A does not contain 30% liquid hydrogen cyanide, but 90% methyl cyanoformate and 10% methyl chloroformate.[17] Moreover, as Carlo Mattogno has pointed out,[18] the system described in the Soviet technical report is not suitable for the dispersion of Zyklon A. In the light of such inaccuracies, it is no surprise that other aspects of the report would also be inaccurate.
The primary purposes of reputational terrorism are twofold:  (a) to incent the original offender to desist from any repetitions of his offense—to silence him; and (b) to discourage others who might come out publicly in agreement with the original offender or with other material in effect committing a similar offense—to make an example of the victim. Item (b) can work, if the defamation reaches a wide enough audience, makes clear what the offense was, and properly intimidates members of the audience without inflaming them with disgust or hatred for the defamer. Accusations of “Holocaust denial” remain effective for the present thanks to a long tradition in the West of training students to reflexively revile people to whom such a label is affixed, but overuse of the label together with overtraining in the requisite reaction may be eroding the effectiveness of this particular ritual. Where the process is effective in deterring other would-be publicizers of a proscribed viewpoint, the censorship-after-the-fact becomes pre-emptive censorship, always the preferred form of suppression for undesirable opinions.
It should be noted that the document cited by Setkiewicz – NI-11397 – is an affidavit of 18 October 1945 by Alfred Zaun, accountant of the Testa Company, in which he details the Zyklon B deliveries to concentration camps during 1942 and 1943 (see Document 15 in the appendix of my upcoming book).
Behind the valves both pipelines are again led back into the attic area above the gas chamber and merged back together into one pipe. This pipe enters a sheet-metal shaft, which again goes through the adjoining room and leads the heated air to the air intake at the floor of the gas chamber.
The phrase “Holocaust denial” can now be examined, for it, too, involves misnaming. Everyone knows that the German government between 1933 and 1945 had an anti-Jewish policy to which may be traced much suffering and many deaths for Jews during that time. Very few people in 2014 would argue that that policy was either wise or just, let alone its implementation, which eventually involved injustice and suffering on a massive scale. It may be that the degree and nature of Jewish presence in Germany around 1933 posed some problems for the German people; but, if so, these could have been and should have been dealt with in a different manner altogether.
Another important point they made was that ‘the allegations now being made against Demjanjuk have been reviewed in Poland, the site of the death camps, and that government has pronounced the evidence insufficient and closed the investigation.’
“Such denial includes specific claims that, notwithstanding well-established historical facts to the contrary, the Nazis did not murder c.[a?] 6 million Jews, that the notion of murderous gas chambers is a myth, and that any deaths of Jews occurring under the Nazis took place only because of wartime privations. Such denial persists despite the fact that this genocide is one of the best-documented instances, with a broad range of mutually corroborating and compelling evidence reaffirming its various elements.” (p. 22)
38. Hungarian women and children arriving at Auschwitz, May/June 1944.
It is clear that Gerlach is misleading the reader by cherry picking phrases and stitching them together in his extermination scenario, a tactic much favored by Holocaust historians. Even worse, he does not hesitate to resort to indirect falsifications. For example:
On June 14th, 2005, Telegraph journalist Ben Fenton wrote to the National Archives suggesting that letters cited in Allen’s Himmler’s Secret War had been forged and requested that the forensic scientist Audrey Giles be allowed to inspect them. Given two of the files on the 23rd, she reported on 29th that six letters in them had been forged.
And yet his book has plenty of things that he most certainly did not experience, things which are all wrong, and he does not even try to back them up. That neither helps his credibility nor his response to Holocaust denial. It just makes it worse.
Perhaps we are now ready to draw some conclusions about this great murder mystery called the Holocaust. Let’s construct a rational and plausible account of what happened to the Jews during World War II. All the evidence suggests that Hitler was true to his word: that his Jewish policy was one of ‘ex-termination’ (Ausrottung), that is, of forcibly removing the millions of Jews from the territories that Germany wished to inhabit. If many died in the process, it was tough luck for them. As a people, they were guilty of inciting both world wars and especially the treasonous German Revolution of November 1918.[71] Via their dominance in the Weimar government, their incessant promotion of crude, decadent, and materialistic values, their over-representation in media, law and finance, and perhaps most of all their malevolent control of Bolshevist Russia, the Jews were a mortal threat to German well-being. Whatever misfortunes befell them as they suffered their deportation were well-deserved, on Hitler’s view. But he never desired, and never ordered, their mass murder.
But it wasn’t all talk-show theater. Because the second, and ultimately more important, thing that set Cole apart from other revisionists was his knack for getting his hands dirty. He conducted – and documented – on-site investigations in the “Holiest of Holies” where the worst conveyor-belt atrocities were believed (“by all the best people” as Bradley would have it) to have gone down. Cole's groundbreaking guerilla Auschwitz documentary, David Cole Interviews Dr. Franciszek Piper remains a case in point. Rather than simply lay contextualizing narration over the usual stock footage of marching brownshirts and bulldozed corpses, Cole did what other revisionists, a few notable exceptions notwithstanding, would not – and to be fair, could not – do; he visited ground-zero and critically examined the physical structure of what was then presented to tourists as a homicidal gas chamber in its “original state.” Cole put questions to the museum staff and even scored a groundbreaking interview with then-curator Dr. Franciszek Piper – who, at little prompting, admitted what revisionists alone had long contended – that the “gas chamber” displayed to tourists as the genuine article was in fact a postwar “reconstruction” (though of course, revisionists would more likely call it a “fake”). While other revisionists buried their noses in books (which is, of course, important), Cole took matters into his own hands. He was inquisitive. He was tenacious. He was clever. And just as important, he had the testicular brass – and the “Jew face” – to go where others feared to tread.
Rare is the literary hoax that doesn’t collapse under rudimentary scrutiny, and phony Holocaust memoirs are no different. It just takes a little longer for word to get out, and it probably helps when the hoaxers turn out not to be Jewish (as was the case with two out of three of the H-fakers profiled in Literary Hoaxes). In Wilkomirski’s case, the edifice of his childhood memoir Fragments began to crumble soon after a sleuthing skeptic wrote up a carefully researched exposé in the Swiss magazine, Weltwoche, revealing the aging fantasist’s true identity as an orphaned Christian named Bruno Grosjean, who, it seemed reasonable to speculate, had simply projected his own unhappy childhood memories onto the Grand Guignol of the Twentieth Century. And if the maudlin tropes involving savior wolves and apple tossing love gestures weren’t enough to sew doubt in the cases of Defonseca and Rosenblat, lupine behaviorists and camp geographers were on hand to lay their trite vagaries to dust.
Abraham H. Foxman, National Director of the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith lent his own voice to the chorus of critics and sent a letter to the president of the Federal Courts in Germany, Professor Walter Odersky. Foxman urged the court to affirm the “undesirability of the Holocaust” and applauded “legislative efforts now underway [that] will make it easier for judges in Germany to punish hatemongering and incitement to violence against minorities.”[41]
The mass expulsion of entire populations after the conclusions of armed conflicts was not in the European tradition. With the exception of the Treaty of Lausanne in July 1923, which sanctioned mutual expulsions after the Greek-Turkish war of 1921-1922, European nations did not contemplate nor carry out resettlement schemes prior to World War II. The Poles and Czechs, however, were determined to forcibly expel their minority populations under the auspices of international organizations. These two governments-in-exile, located in London during most of the war, sought approval from the victorious Allies for the forced expulsion of their German minorities.[3]
These motivations are not very convincing. In particular, they do not explain why Venezia's close relatives, his brother Maurice and his cousin Dario, his companions in misfortune from the  "Sonderkommando", also kept silent, just the way he did. But above all, they appear inadequate in view of the "duty to testify", which should be legal and historical, in addition to ethical. Venezia, in fact, inexplicably, has never made any official declaration, never made a sworn statement, never participated in any trial against his persecutors: not at the Eichmann Trial in Jerusalem (April 1961-May 1962), nor the Auschwitz Trial in Frankfurt (December 1963-August 1965), nor at the Auschwitz Trial in Vienna, against F. Ertl and W. Dejaco (January-March 1972); he has never contributed to the condemnation of his jailers, nor has he enlightened historians on the presumed process of extermination at Auschwitz. Why not? Just because a few know-it-alls might have thought he was crazy?
Nevertheless, Blatt offers some “detailed knowledge” of the Sobibor “gas chambers.” He says they were “decorated with flowers, a Star of David, and the inscription ‘Bathhouse.’”[96] How did he get this “information?” Did he actually see the “gas chambers?” If he did, then how come he was not killed by the Germans, as “seeing” implied instant execution? Or did he get these “facts” by word of mouth from other prisoners or from former guards?
The Nazis had taken away beauty from everything. The most luscious green landscapes became extermination fields, and Ukrainian children became the hired hands of death. The perpetrators of genocide used everything ― cliffs, grain silos, beaches, irrigation wells, ditches. Everything that could be closed off was used as a prison. Schools, town halls, synagogues, wine cellars, police stations, shops, the kolkhoz pigsties, chicken houses, and stables, had become, one after the other, the antechambers of death. The landscape, buildings, and children became, in the hands of the assassins, tools to exterminate the people of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
[19] Guttenplan, D. D., The Holocaust on Trial, New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 2001, pp. 279-280.
"We have no evidence to the effect that the transports were deliberately sent to a place that would abet the deception of Warsaw's Jews. It is likewise doubtful that the Germans had to bother with any such special circuitous action, since it was much simpler to compel the deportees to copy down dictated letters immediately upon their arrival at Treblinka. This system was used at a number of camps. In fact, it was a customary tactic of deception employed throughout the course of the 'Final Solution.' But it is also true that many escaped from the trains on the way to Treblinka. Youth movement members, for example, repeatedly escaped from the freight cars and returned to the ghetto. Thus it is highly probable that there were escapees who did not return to the ghetto and that they too wrote letters but deliberately failed to state that they had escaped from the train on the way to Treblinka and were living someplace illegally. It is logical that such letters would be deliberately vague, just as there were good reasons why they might be misunderstood or the true location of the sender might easily be misinterpreted. Yet in many cases the tales of greetings and letters were no more than hearsay, and the more one tried to track down the person who had actually seen the letter with his own eyes, or had received the letter himself, the clearer it became that the so-called source had only heard about such a letter from someone else, who had in turn heard about it. The true source of the rumors was evidently the Germans and their Jewish agents, though we can also presume that in a community starved for hope and trying to block out the horrible truth, rumors of this kind come into being even without an instigator at work."[155]
As for poor scholarship, Baxter recycles the claim that John (Ivan) Demjanjuk served as a guard in the “extermination area” (p. 68), despite the fact there exists no solid evidence whatsoever for Demjanjuk being posted to Treblinka. That Demjanjuk has now passed away is, unfortunately, unlikely to stop the frequent repetition of this accusation, we suspect. We further find claims that transports of Dutch Jews were sent to Treblinka in 1943 (p. 91), something which can be ruled out from readily available statistics and transport data. Baxter’s sloppiness in the field of research is also revealed by the fact that he gives the victim figure for Sobibór as “approximately 250,000” (p. 159) – an estimate which was rendered impossible by the discovery of the Höfle document in 2000 – despite listing in his bibliography the 2003 German edition of Jules Schelvis’s Sobibór study, which gives the number of Jewish arrivals at that camp as some 170,000.
In assessing the reported cremation of huge numbers of human corpses in German concentration, labor, transit and/or extermination camps during the Second World War, the capacities of the respective facilities – crematories, outdoor cremation pits and pyres, as well as mass graves – are an important factor. Literature on the pertinent crematories is plentiful and technically well documented, especially by Pressac’s and Mattogno’s works. In particular the Auschwitz camp was well equipped with crematoria. The other camps established in eastern Poland (Treblinka, Sobibór and Belzec) did not have such sophisticated facilities, so that many corpses had to be burned outdoors. Some two million Holocaust victim deaths are traditionally ascribed to these camps. Using current knowledge about the open-air cremation of large amounts of livestock carcasses, the author of the present study investigates under which circumstances the disposal of so many human corpses would have been feasible, if at all.
The rules of evidence used at the Dachau trial were also atrociously lax. For example, hearsay evidence presented by the prosecution was routinely allowed by the “judges.” Such testimony was permitted at the Dachau trials if it seemed “relevant to a reasonable man.” This departure from normal Anglo-Saxon law was intended to compensate for the fact that some potential eyewitnesses had died in captivity.[4]
Let us stipulate that the presumed Nazi genocide of European Jewry is, to whatever extent, rationally contestable; that the “moral equivalence” trump card may one day be taken out of play, or at least removed from the top of the deck. Even if revisionists are vindicated on every foundational particular, the reality of Jewish persecution under Hitler’s iron hand will remain resonant, both as a cultural signpost and as an historical fact. We can never know if Baker is correct about opportunities foregone. But we do know something of what came to pass, in the immediate years following Baker’s chronology, and in the long aftermath of Allied victory. We know about Dresden. We know about Hiroshima and Nagasaki. We know about the camps where so many met their fate. We know about the totalitarian states that would emerge in the wake what was – is – justified. There would be a Gulag and a Five Year Plan. And there would be millions of innocent lives ground to spice and ashes. Mao and Uncle Joe were surely enabled b
Six FINAL SOLUTION 1942
Deborah Lipstadt, a Jewish academic and a prominent figure in the Holocaust lobby, took aim at Bradley's efforts in her Denying the Holocaust.  One chapter of her book, “The Battle for the Campus,” focuses specifically on Smith's advertisements. She laments that after seeing the ads, many students might assume there is an “other side” [to the Holocaust story.]
For the year 1943, Setkiewicz cites two documents. A travel permit for a five-ton truck with trailer from Auschwitz to Dessau and back to pick up material for disinfestation (“zwecks Abholung von Materialien zur Desinfektion”) dated 7 January 1943 (see Document 13 in the appendix of my upcoming book), and a travel permit for a five-ton truck from Auschwitz to Dessau to pick up Zyklon (“zwecks Abholung von Zyklon”) of 30 July (see Document 14 in the appendix of my upcoming book). These cargo trips are confirmed by two other documents, therefore we may assume that they did indeed take place. Setkiewicz writes (p. 71):
As far as I know, Kula testified at least three times after the war, first during the pre-trial investigations leading up to the show trial against former Auschwitz commandant Rudolf Höss, then during the trial itself, and finally during the trial against the Auschwitz camp garrison. Pressac and van Pelt merely considered Kula’s first testimony. However, in order to assess the accuracy of his testimony and his trustworthiness as a truthful witness, all of his testimonies need to be considered.
It was also reported that Scully had distributed pamphlets alleging that the Holocaust was a lie, the Talmud encouraged pedophilia, Jews orchestrated the Port Arthur massacre[92], communism was a Jewish plot and the world banks, media and pornography are under Jewish control.
DuBois did not understand that there were no homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. The Zyklon-B gas at Auschwitz-Birkenau was used in highly sophisticated and expensive disinfestation facilities to kill lice and save inmate lives. The alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau could not have been used to mass murder hundreds of thousands of Jews as claimed by the prosecution.[31]
Thus we find no talk of mass murder (with the lone exception), extermination camps, genocide, or anything like this in Mein Kampf. Hitler’s opponents search in vain for signs of an impending ‘Holocaust’ in which the mass of German Jewry would be murdered. The reader is invited to do the same. It is simply not there—much to the chagrin of his critics.
"By the end of the century, the number of people who died a violent death at the hand of their fellow humans would rise to more than 100 million. They died not only through wars between nations, but also through mass exterminations and genocide, such as the murder of 20 million 'class enemies, spies, and traitors' in the Soviet Union under Stalin or the unspeakable horrors of the Holocaust in Nazi Germany."
In a recent issue of the New York Review of Books, a lecture by Timothy Snyder of Yale University was reprinted under the title “Holocaust: The Ignored Reality”. Clearly, the title, as well as the prominence accorded to this article, based on a lecture given in Riga earlier this year, suggests a new model for interpreting the Holocaust as well as all that went on in Eastern Europe during World War Two. Consulting Professor Snyder’s website, we see that the lecture contains what will apparently be the main thesis of his forthcoming book, Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin to be published late next year, and which will be followed by another large historical synthesis, Brotherlands its title suggesting that it show the bands of similarity and shared heritage among Germans, Poles, and East European Jews.
6. The prohibition of ‘glorification of National Socialism’ as an addition to the criminal provision on genocide denial: (Sect. 130 (4) of the German Criminal Code)
The most-famous of these accused war criminals is Adolf Eichmann, who needs no more introduction than his name. Next most-famous, perhaps, is Yitzhak Arad, a Jew from Lithuania who has lived most of his life in Israel and gained a name in certain circles of scholarly advocacy as the author of several books purporting to describe, in great detail, various phases of the historical subject embraced by the term “the Holocaust.” Next would come the late John Demjanjuk, a Gentile from Ukraine who lived most of his life in America whose citizenship in that country was twice granted, and twice revoked during the travails he experienced in the last three decades of his life while persecuted by a succession of international Holocaust avengers. The one most spared the revealing light of international notoriety, and even a trial, is one Salomon Morel, a Jew from Poland who was commandant of the post-war Zgoda/Świętochłowice concentration camp for Prussian German expellees in Poland, and also spent the latter part of his life in Israel without calling any further attention to himself, nor having it come to him in the manner experienced by the Gentiles in this list. The cases will be reviewed in the order in which they became public.
He is at present undergoing interrogation by the military authorities. He cannot be released. [...] he is undergoing interrogation on security matters. Application was made through the proper channels, but it was said that he could not come. [...] It is also within the knowledge of the convening authority that the witness is being held at the disposition of the Nuremberg International Tribunal.[168]
The transit camp Sobibor is to be converted into a concentration camp. In the concentration camp a plant for the repair of captured munitions is to be established.[7]
In Chapter 4 of the book—“Irving and Holocaust Denial”—Evans attempts to summarize and rebut the revisionist point of view, with the ultimate goal of proving Irving to be a denier. In order to do so, he must define ‘Holocaust denial,’ show that it is wrong, and demonstrate that Irving supported it.
Heschel insists that the German Christians who promoted the Aryan Jesus concept were fashioning a view of Jesus Christ that served their agenda: they wanted a God who had their own ethnic identity and "fit in" with their racialist ideology.[88] Yet, this twisting and fashioning of the historical evidence in order to make it conform to a National Socialist agenda is really a mirror image of Heschel's twisting and fashioning the evidence to make the Christian religion conform to her own Zionist agenda. She admits that Jews of centuries past "constructed" Jesus Christ in "their own image."[89] Heschel is heir to this tradition.
The last case known to me was mentioned in a small 1991 book published by – again – a publisher of the right about the trial against former Auschwitz guard Gottfried Weise.7
Chapter 17 continues with a very cursory overview of the camps themselves; even Auschwitz gets less than one page of dedicated text (p. 344). It closes with the on-going lament about how incomprehensible was the 'mass murder' order: "The decision-making process underlying the systematic genocide remains largely obscure and must be reconstructed from the course of events" (p. 359). It would be more accurate to say constructed, since Longerich himself fills in all necessary gaps with assumptions, inferences, and outright inventions. Critical pieces of evidence in the extermination story are missing and unaddressed: the impossibility of gassing with carbon monoxide, the incoherent account of Zyklon-B chambers, the impossibility of mass open-air incineration with wood, the air photos, the missing bodies, the missing mass graves, and any analysis of Jewish population movement. Even his own account is peppered with incriminating facts, like the continued eastward deportations through late 1943, the expulsion (not murder) of foreign Jews at that same time, and Himmler's suspension of Jewish deportations from Hungary in August 1944.
“On June 21 he ordered that all of the ghettos in Reich Commissariat Ostland be emptied by August 1 and that a certain proportion of their inhabitants be killed, with the rest transferred to concentration camps.” (p. 110)
On March 17, 1942, Fritz Reuter, an employee in the Department of Population and Welfare in the Office of the Governor General for the District of Lublin, made a note in which he referred to a talk on the previous day with the SS Hauptsturmführer H. Höfle, the delegate for Jewish resettlement in the Lublin district. Reuter wrote:
Ferencz took only two days to present the 253 captured documents in the Einsatzgruppen case. These documents were the primary evidence used to convict the defendants in this trial.[22] It should be noted that all the documents presented in this trial were prosecution documents. The documents were screened solely for the purpose of helping the prosecution’s case, while depriving the defense of any and all documents that might be of help to them.[23]
3. I held the position of Adjutant and Schutzhaftlagerführer in Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp from 1939 until 1940.
Q. I am going to tell you something instead of asking the questions. 5 Million people died from gassing in Auschwitz. What do you understand from that?
[“Mit schwerem Herzen und trauervollem Geist erinnern und ehren wir die Opfer, Überlebenden, Helden des Holocaust. Es ist unmöglich, die Verdorbenheit und den Schrecken, die unschuldige Menschen durch den Nazi-Terror erlitten, vollständig zu ergründen.
A question of interest: Was Roosevelt Jewish? I will examine this issue in detail later with respect to FDR (as to whom there is more to say), but in brief, there is considerable circumstantial evidence that all of the Roosevelts were, at least in part, Jewish. In Theodore’s case, the only explicit indication is a claim by former Michigan governor Chase Osborn. In a letter dated 21 March 1935, Osborn said, “President [Franklin] Roosevelt knows well enough that his ancestors were Jewish. I heard Theodore Roosevelt state twice that his ancestors were Jewish.”[16] But Osborn offers no specifics, and I am not aware of any further claims regarding Theodore himself.
According to the Technical Report, a homicidal gas chamber was installed in the building of the new crematorium. The Soviet experts furnished a detailed description of the ”apparatus for the evaporation of prussic acid“ said to have been installed on the back wall of the neighboring room (the so-called garage) but hushed up the fact that this wall was bare at the time of their arrival and that parts of the apparatus were (allegedly) found in a well. The various drafts of the ESC contain a certain amount of information about the technical aspects of the gas chamber.
Continuing on the line of unpopular revisionism, Rothbard displayed little patience for the territorial aggressions of the state of Israel, nor for the mythology of the Holocaust providing moral cover for Israeli expansionism as long ago as 1967, when he published "War Guilt in the Middle East" in the Spring-Summer issue of the proto-libertarian journal Left and Right. In that article (http://tinyurl.com/2aystg6), he wrote:
[13] Gutnam, Israel and Berenbaum, Michael, Anatomy of the Auschwitz Death Camp, Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press, 1998, pp. 329-331.
Supporters of the legislation proclaimed that the rules would “aim to penalize anyone who incited to hatred or violence, and anyone who publicly condoned, denied or grossly trivialized crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.”
Nevertheless, as in the case of Germany, Russia, and Poland, the Holocaust ideology in the United States and Great Britain is on shaky ground. The masses in these nations are gradually becoming aware of the negative role it plays, most notably as a “justification” for the continued oppression of the Palestinian people by Israel, as an ideological weapon against the European-descended portion of the population, and a “justification” for future destructive wars that could threaten the very survival of the two countries. All of these factors coming together could trigger a massive future reappraisal of the Holocaust mythology in the US and Britain.
The strength of Crowell's book is also its weakness. He stays riveted on "gas chambers," refusing to be drawn into broader issues or concerns. He explicitly rejects the notion that revisionist theses on the Holocaust carry with them implications for Israel, whose problems, he says "have nothing to do with an aggressive recounting of the suffering of the Jewish people in World War Two."
Longerich writes that the word “ausrotten” or “ausrottung” means extirpation.[16] Deborah Lipstadt writes that virtually all Holocaust historians agree that the use of this term by Nazi leaders in conjunction with Jews from the summer of 1941 on is an unambiguous euphemism for “physical annihilation.”[17]
“That such privileges were illusory, and intended only to create the impression of provisional internment, is attested to by the fact that, of the nearly 23,000 Sinti and Roma registered in the camp between February 1943 and July 1944, approximately 21,000 died; 7,000 were killed in the gas chambers; the remaining 14,000 died of various diseases and of hunger, or were declared sick and killed by SS doctors.”[20]
In l946, the Polish judge Jan Sehn, while recognizing that Birkenau camp was intended for prisoners of war, insinuated:
Although the authors had been working on their report for five weeks (April/May 1945) the expressions “shooting in the neck” and “gas chamber” appear for the first time in HB-5. Had Hellmut Bock, under whose supervision the document was being drafted, and his comrades really forgotten about these murder facilities? Or were they simply ignorant of their existence? There is every reason to believe that this last sentence was added at the behest of the Soviet investigators. The likewise undated version HB-6 has an appendix, correctly designated as such, which this time is not stuck on the page with glue but typewritten:
Pressac imagined that one could correct the unavoidable flow of the gas from Morgue #1 into the other rooms of the basement of the crematorium by opening the access door from the north court and the one at the end of Morgue #2, and then activating the ventilation system of this room. This solution does not take into account the fact that the “gas chamber” with its blocked air-exhaust channels may have been in overpressure (air blown inside from the intake air-blower, heat generated by the bodies of the victims), while the furnace room was in double underpressure, both for the air draft of the chimney and for its own ventilation system; also Morgue #2 was equipped with a similar ventilation system, and was also in underpressure; in simple terms, an air flow was constantly moving towards the cremation furnaces and towards the exhaust openings located on the ceiling of the furnace room; a similar air flow moved into Morgue #2 toward the corresponding air-blower.
Upon reflection and with the help of that great humanitarian, Elie Wiesel, who seems to be acting as a kind of Jewish Billy Graham and who has never acknowledged the injustice done the Palestinians, Foxman [now] thinks that it was a genocide after all. (Of course according to their newspaper ad of several days back this means that the national ADL is now abandoning Turkish Jewry to a horrible fate.)[24]
In the book, he mentions the exact number of inmates registered[20], which he could not have known at the time. It is therefore clear that this information is taken from the Auschwitz Kalendarium.
Today one may wonder if Irving’s lawsuit was a good strategy. It is of course easy to second guess with clear hindsight. It is important however to remember the context of the lawsuit. Following Lipstadt’s book, intellectual freedom with regard to the Holocaust was being shut down all around the world. In 1996 a German judge had ordered that Germar Rudolf be arrested for publishing a ground-breaking revisionist analysis of various aspects of the Holocaust, Grundlagen zur Zeitsgeschichte. Later that year, a judge ordered that all copies of the book be burned. Also that same year, Tony Blair during his candidacy for prime minister of Great Britain repeatedly promised to ban revisionist writings about the Holocaust.13 It was in this environment of declining freedom of expression and out-and-out persecution of revisionists that David Irving launched his lawsuit. His objective, as he stated in the closing speech of the trial was simple:
Remark: Today, in 2006, this trickery makes our thoughts turn to the miserable demonstration by the former American government minister Colin Powell when trying to prove, by the same device of having labels stuck onto aerial photos, the existence of works for the manufacture of “weapons of mass destruction” in Saddam Hussein’s Iraq. In reality, those photos of Auschwitz slap discredit on the case for Nazi gas chambers. What can be distinctly made out on them are serene crematoria structures, with no crowds huddled outside waiting to enter the alleged changing rooms and the alleged death chambers. The surrounding grounds are free of obstruction and visible from all directions. The flowerbeds in the patches of garden round the crematories are neatly laid-out and bear no trace of being stamped upon, every day, by thousands of people. Crematorium n°3, for instance, abuts on what we know to have been, thanks to sound documents from the Auschwitz State Museum, a football field and is close to a volleyball court (Hefte von Auschwitz, 15, 1975, plate on page 56 and page 64). It is also close to eighteen hospital barracks of the men’s camp. There were thirty-two Allied air missions above this zone which also comprised the large industrial installations of Monowitz. It is understandable that the Allied aviation should have attacked the industrial sector several times whilst sparing as much as possible what was obviously a concentration, labour and transit camp and not an “extermination camp”, on which there fell, in the end, only a few stray bombs.
The first of these, a few missiles launched from naval vessels, was trivial in the grand scheme of things, while the second was eternally tragic for all concerned, especially the intended beneficiaries (the people of the United States). Both exemplify the horrendously perverse effects of employing, or threatening the use of, force to make groups of people who are killing each other stop doing so. The counterproductive effects of such campaigns are so manifest, so predictable, so extensive, that sustained consideration of them leads inexorably to the cynical conclusion that they are in fact launched for reasons entirely unrelated to the welfare of any possible future victims of the targeted “genocide.” Collectively, they represent a grotesque corollary of the ironic slogan, “Kill for Peace.” For his particular enterprise, Barack Obama made heavy use of the manic—and largely unfounded—fear of poison gas so trenchantly deconstructed by Samuel Crowell in his blockbuster The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes, extensively reviewed in the Summer 2011 issue of Inconvenient History.
After their invasion of the Soviet Union, the Germans took hundreds of thousands of prisoners within the first few months (the exact number is still disputed). Sheltering and feeding this huge mass of people confronted the Wehrmacht with enormous problems. Those Soviеt POWs who were sent to the territory of the Reich before the onset of winter were relatively lucky. Since the capacity of the existing POW camps was insufficient to lodge them all, a considerable number of Soviet prisoners were sent to farms to perform agricultural work or to German towns to perform communal work. Thousands more were interned in concentration camps – not for annihilation, but in order to work in industrial plants situated in the neighborhood of the camps. The “normal” camp inmates had to evacuate some of their barracks for the newcomers, which led to serious overcrowding.
The Mémorial de la Shoah even presents a photo print that is clearly of Soviet origin and has a Russian language caption quite different from the one quoted above:
Alexander cites the case of the eminent Princeton historian of the Middle East, Bernard Lewis, who was asked in an interview with Le Monde about the mass murder of Armenians in Turkey during World War I. While conceding that terrible massacres had indeed occurred, Lewis questioned whether genocide was really intended as part of a preconceived plan undertaken by the Turkish government.
Specifically, newly minted Colonel Morel became commandant of the Zgoda/Świętochłowice concentration camp for Prussian German expellees in Poland, a camp full, as he likely saw it, of people related to those who identified his fellow Jews as enemies and subsequently enslaved them in great numbers in the course of fighting a war that ultimately took on existential consequences for the Germans. He may also have believed the tales of mass torture or even genocide the Germans are supposed to have committed against his people.
Heute ist dieser Raum mit zwei schweren Stahltüren ausgestattet von der Art, wie sie für Luftschutzbunker recht üblich waren. Die Türen sind einen Meter breit und in Stahlrahmen gefasst. Dieselben Türen werden in den US-Aufnahmen vom 3. Mai 1945 gezeigt, also nur fünf Tage, nachdem das Lager von den Amerikanern erobert wurde. Sie wurden daher höchstwahrscheinlich lange vor Ankunft der Amerikaner dort eingebaut. Außerdem besteht eine der Wände genau genommen aus zwei Schichten mit einem Hohlraum dazwischen, der typischerweise der Isolierung dient, was auch in der oben erwähnten Leichenhalle von Auschwitz zu erkennen ist.
Dragon’s description of Bunker 2 as a little house with a little window in the side wall where gas was introduced is also not credible. Genuine homicidal gas chambers require advanced engineering and construction. Homicidal gas chambers cannot be made out of existing cottages where poison gas is introduced through a little window in a side wall. Furthermore, no documentary evidence has ever been found indicating that Bunker 2 at Birkenau functioned as an extermination facility.[24]
Litigation in Germany also seems to have been influenced by the kind of narrative presented by George Stevens and Frank Capra. From one of the Auschwitz trials staged in Frankfurt by Hesse's Jewish district attorney Fritz Bauer, it was reported:
The Trump Administration issued a statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day that did not mention any particular ethnic group as the victims of the Holocaust. Representatives of Jewish organizations immediately demanded that the presumed oversight be corrected, but the Trump Administration refused to do this, stating that they did not wish to commemorate Jewish deaths to the exclusion of the many non-Jewish deaths in the Holocaust.
The only option left for the traditionalists is to claim that these walls were reinforced to a much thicker width at the very moment the morgue is said to have been converted into a homicidal gas chamber, meaning in September 1941. Yet no evidence exists for this neither in the documental record nor in witness testimonies known to me.
As Professor Robert Manne, a prominent Australian intellectual and a Jew, noted,[2] the issue thus raised became the subject of a government inquiry in 1986 under Mr Andrew Menzies, the resulting report being used as the basis of proposed new legislation in the form of an amendment to the 1945 legislation establishing a military tribunal to try Japanese war criminals. Menzies ‘examined allegations against two hundred people who had allegedly committed war crimes and were living in Australia….. (he) put aside a number of allegations because they were too vague or because there was insufficient connection between the alleged events and the person concerned or the crime was not serious enough. His list was reduced to some seventy people.’[3] There is a reasonable presumption that Menzies was chosen for the job because he could be depended upon to produce a report consonant with the Australian Government’s wishes; and it was convenient that he had a surname comforting to Australian conservatives because of the famous Liberal prime minister, Sir Robert Menzies. In my view the Menzies Report failed to find adequate justification for the holding of the desired trials. It relied on the tainted precedent of the Nuremberg and other post-World War Two trials, and on popular opinions.
Sarkozy himself is the child of a Hungarian father and a mother of Jewish descent. In Hungary quite recently, following on the recent passage of a law criminalizing "Holocaust denial," a further law criminalizing the denial of Roma criminality (no, that is not a typo—see http://tinyurl.com/2gyqsf9) has been proposed before the national legislature. In any case, Jews and Roma were concurrently rounded up, deported, and put in many of the very same concentration camps by the Germans in the twentieth century. While this might be seen as giving the two groups common cause, or cause for hatred of Germans, it has turned out more to occasion competition between the two groups for the spoils of retribution—mention in monuments to atrocities, reparations payments, and the like. As yet, the Roma have not chosen any territory anywhere to serve as their "ancestral homeland," as Israel does the Jews. How about Bangladesh? Bangladesh is quite as uninhabited today as Palestine was in the years before 1948, and the Roma genotype indicates origins in that desolate region.
According to a Soviet report from 25 July 1944 on “Violent crimes committed in the concentration camp near the village of Trostenets”, which I do not have at my disposal but which is referenced by historian Christian Gerlach, no fewer than 546,000 people were murdered in Maly Trostenets.[17] This figure apparently came to be seen as incredible and was thus discarded, even though it would surface once or twice in the later literature.
These orders categorically disprove the allegation that the Gypsies were the object of racial persecution. Thus, “racial purity” was, for them, even a guarantee of favorable treatment. The measures taken in their regard were not inhumane, and are not consistent with a presumed intention to commit genocide.
Finally, with regard to facts opposing the assertion, made without evidence, that Third Reich Germany was exterminating the Jews, a French study is worth reading, rich in astonishing revelations; entitled “Vie quotidienne des juifs allemands pendant la guerre (Trois documents)” (Daily Life of German Jews during the War – Three Documents), it appeared in the Revue d’histoire révisionniste n° 6 (May 1992), p. 131-140. The piece bore the byline of “Célestin Loos” but actually had two authors: the Belgian Pierre Moreau, recently deceased, and myself. The case of the Berlin Jewish hospital (director: Dr Walter Lustig) is mentioned in passing (p. 138, note 3).
Salomon Morel was a Polish Jew who emigrated to Israel. During the expulsions that occurred post-war, when twelve million Germans were forced from their homes, via camps, to the newly diminished German state, Morel was the commandant of the Zgoda concentration camp in Świętochłowice, Poland. While in charge there it is alleged that Morel maintained an utterly brutal regime, in which food and medical supplies were provided to him, but purposely withheld from the inmates and conditions were contrived to be as unsanitary as possible. It is also alleged that he personally tortured and murdered prisoners. Estimates vary, but usually range from between one and a half to two thousand people killed by Morel during his time in charge. Several thousand more suffered horribly under his regime. The inmates were predominately civilians, including women and children. Like Heim, Morel fled when it became clear that Polish authorities intended to prosecute him, (to Israel in 1992) but at this point, his and the other stories mentioned above diverge.
The only hope to get to the bottom of these issues is to conduct on-site excavations. Such work would allow us to determine the number and size of the mass graves, to quantify any remaining bodies, bones, or ash, and to find any remnants of the gas chambers. To a greater or lesser degree, such work has been performed at all three Reinhardt camps. What, then, does the excavation record tell us about each of these? Here is a summary in brief.
Call it what you will, our hapless author was excommunicated from the precincts of University College London (UCL) in 2008, when he published, in (Bradley) Smith’s Report an article that described Germar Rudolf’s discoveries[2] regarding the cyanide content of brickwork in various parts of Auschwitz and other World War II-era German camps where presumed enemies of the Reich were said to have been gassed to death in numbers reaching into the millions. Before he disclosed his interest in what chemistry-based forensics revealed regarding erroneous popular history, Kollerstrom had been a member of staff of the Department of Science and Technology Studies. But UCL could not tolerate association with anyone expressing even the slightest credence for Rudolf’s heretical findings, so Kollerstrom became a nonperson, so far as UCL was concerned.
Continuing from the previous article, we will examine some more Greek testimonies, this time from the book The Holocaust in the Testimonies of the Greek Jews (To olokautoma stis martyries ton ellinon evraion). This book contains excerpts from published testimonies as well as oral ones. We will examine the most important concerning the extermination claims.
Venezia's other cousin, Yakob Gabbai, by contrast, spoke out. At the beginning of the 1990s, he granted an interview to the Israeli historian Gideon Greif, who published it in 1995[12]. Greif also interviewed three other of Venezia's self-proclaimed companions in misfortune, who mentioned him explicitly: Josef Sackar, registered at Auschwitz under number 182739[13], Shaul Chasan, 182527[14] and Léon Cohen, 182492[15], both of them, explicitly mentioned, in turn, by Venezia[16]. The comparison between these testimonies and Venezia's, as we shall see, is very instructive.
The Holocaust occurred in one of the most densely populated, developed regions in the world, and so rapidly attained the rank of history’s largest project of its kind as well, not only in terms of numbers deported and the apparent death toll among them, but even in terms of the distances traveled by its victims in the course of their incarceration. Combined with the ravages of disease, exposure, starvation, overwork and the deliberate killing of huge numbers under the impetus of various motivations, the carnage attained a scale comparable to the decimation sustained by untargeted civilian populations from the war through many of the same proximate causes, as well as others, such as aerial bombardment.
On the orthodox account of the Holocaust, the extermination of the Jews accelerated in January 1942.Chelmno camp, which had just commenced in December of the previous year, increased its toll, and Auschwitz allegedly began gassing its first few thousand Jews. The infamous Wannsee conference occurred on January 20, but in spite of the alleged on-going actions at the two camps it was merely “a key stepping-stone on the path to that terrible genocidal finality,” according to Kershaw (2000: 493).
Mainstream Holocaust historiography needless to say knows nothing of deportations of Latvian Jews to “south-eastern Poland” – which, based on the map of Poland before the war, could well be taken to mean Galicia or Volhynia (both in present-day Ukraine). The mention of the opening of a “second ghetto”[11] in “Widau” – no doubt a misprint for Windau, the German name of Ventspils, a town in western Latvia, is also highly curious, given that the Jewish population of this town and the surrounding region are claimed to have been exterminated in the autumn of 1941.
2) “My higher authority, The Inspectorate of Concentration Camps, instructed me” (p. 1).
According the official Holocaust literature, the (alleged) mass murders at Treblinka, Sobibor and Belzec were carried out with diesel exhaust. But as engineer Friedrich Berg has shown in his carefully researched article “Diesel Gas Chambers: Ideal for Torture, Absurd for Murder”[19], diesel engines are an extremely poor murder weapon because they put out very low quantities of CO, but contain a high percentage of oxygen. Any gasoline engine would be infinitely more suitable for mass murder than a diesel. Berg’s arguments were so iron-clad that the Holocaust lobby made no attempt to refute them. In Debating the Holocaust Thomas Dalton states:
To summarize, the question remains: who would ever dream up such a crazy idea? Certainly not Kurt Prüfer, a certified engineer, the only true cremation expert at Auschwitz.
Bohr, who was one-half Jewish, traveled from German-occupied Copenhagen to Sweden on September 30, 1943 to avoid being deported to a German concentration camp. Bohr flew to London a few days later where he was informed by British scientists of the massive American and British effort to build atomic bombs. Bohr soon became involved with the political questions as to what would happen after atomic bombs became reality.[11]
“At two o’clock the prisoners were ordered to gather in the furnace room and submit a report at the Disinfection Unit. At that point, a Greek yelled: Upon them! That was the starter to begin the uprising. The other Greeks responded immediately and charged at two guards to grab their weapons. However, the expected help from the rest never came. On the contrary, in fact, some non-Greek prisoners tried to take the weapons from the rebels and give them back to the Germans. I still cannot understand their attitude. There were some shootings in the air and amidst the panic a group of 25 Greeks ran towards the exit. They ran a distance of 50 meters to Crematorium 3 and grabbed the weapons of two more Germans. Subsequently they let the Germans go, fortified themselves in the crematory and waited. All the prisoners, Greek or not, waited with them. [...] The Germans responded quickly. One or two minutes later one of the soldiers of Crematorium 4 regained his nerve, ran to the watchtowers and raised the alarm. [...] Within 15 minutes trucks full of armed soldiers arrived, who surrounded the crematory and ordered the rebels to surrender. They responded with a fusillade of bullets. Obviously, some of the rebels’ bullets had hit their target, because the Nazis stopped shooting and in a few minutes ambulances arrived. Soon they started shooting again. [...] The battle, however, could not go on forever. The Germans started throwing grenades and opening holes on the walls. [...] The next step was to set the crematory on fire. Within a few minutes, Crematorium 3 was engulfed in flames and all Greeks perished.”
“On the other hand, it is of course extremely difﬁcult, if not impossible, for us to check up on speciﬁc instances or matters of detail. For this reason I feel a little unhappy about the statement, to be issued on the authority of His Majesty’s Government, that Poles ‘are now being systematically put to death in gas chambers’.”
While there is evidence that tick experiments were conducted on Plum Island, the sinister connection to Dr. Traub is implausible and proof that the Lyme Disease outbreak of the 1970s originated on Plum Island is purely circumstantial. For his most interesting assertions, Carroll depends on anonymous and secondary source material including the book The Belarus Secret by John Loftus, whose thesis was described as “overzealous” by the New York Times. Carroll might have done well to give more credence to former Plum Island director Dr. Jerry Callis, who asserted, “Not now or ever had we anything to do with Lyme Disease.”
[vii] Tiedemann, Herbert, “Babi Yar: Critical Questions and Comments,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 497.
Cyrus Cox debunks eyewitness testimony claiming that gigantic flames burst from the chimneys of the crematories of Auschwitz/Birkenau. The construction blueprints show that the flues and the chimney of the largest crematories in Auschwitz/Birkenau each had a length of about 15 meters. The coke and coal used to fuel the furnaces burn with a short flame not exceeding half a meter. This fuel could not even have produced flames that protruded out of the cremation muffles.[14]
Grubach also dealt with the claim that the Nazis destroyed Sobibor Camp to destroy evidence of exterminations and suggested instead that they were aware of false atrocity stories circulated by the Allies and wanted to prevent the camp being used to create new propaganda that could ultimately be used against them after the war.
Karl-Heinz Hoffmann, a senior manager of the Gestapo, stated that protective custody was kept brief, internment to a concentration camp was recommended only for the most incorrigible, dangerous cases. Brutal treatment and torture were strictly prohibited. Cases of brutality went to criminal court. Hoffmann cited cases of two Gestapo officers in Düsseldorf who were sent to prison by a criminal court for mistreating prisoners. In Denmark, where Hoffmann later served with Werner Best, who was governor, Hoffmann stated that “enhanced interrogations” were used more frequently against the resistance, but even here were not extensive.135 The defense counsel was “very ably handled by Dr. Rudolf Merkel.” 136 Nonetheless the Nuremberg judgment maintained that the Gestapo was a criminal organization, and that Gestapo employees other than those in minor roles, were complicit. However, no collective, follow-up trial of the Gestapo was held. Most Gestapo officers were exonerated.
“The first murders in the gas chambers at Belzec started in March 1942, targeting Jews from the districts of Lublin and Galicia. They were designed to kill people unfit for work – about 60% of the population, excluding those aged between sixteen and thirty-five years old.” (p. 243)
Although Lüftl was initially charged with “Holocaust denial,” these charges were later dropped, and a new indictment was drawn up under a decades-old law which was drafted under Allied auspices to punish any “attempts to revive or restore National Socialism” –the same criteria which would be applied in Austria’s prosecution of David Irving in 2004.
On 22 April 1945 the large SS-owned zone of Oranienburg, where Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen was situated, was virtually deserted. The first soldiers of the Red Army who approached the camp were hailed as liberators but had to march onward at once. The camp was in the sector of the front assigned to the Second Polish Infantry Division, which formed part of the Red Army. On the morning of 23 April parts of this division reached the SS zone and the camp.[2] On the same day, a “special commission of the political division” entered the camp, where it was welcomed by Polish and (Communist) German prisoners and shown around. A few hours later the Poles had to move on, however they managed to record a report about their impressions,[3] which was later reproduced in a book written by one of the Polish officers, Lieutenant Józef Margules.[4] As a matter of fact, this very first report from the Allied side is of limited value as it is essentially based on hearsay – all kinds of lurid horror stories the Communist prisoners had told their visitors. Only in the last days of April did the Red Army take possession of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp. The entrance was again controlled by guards, and nobody was allowed to enter or leave the camp without a permit, a document the liberated prisoners could obtain quite easily.[5]
Those lines did not fail to remind me of the extraordinary admission, of the kind to make revisionists celebrate, to which English judge Charles Gray was reduced when, on April 11, 2000, he handed down his decision in the libel case brought in London by David Irving against Penguin Books and Deborah Lipstadt. Miss Lipstadt had gotten van Pelt to attend and support her defense, while Irving, whose acquaintance with revisionist argumentation was mediocre, for fear of being associated with Germar Rudolf and myself did not want our assistance: he had even gone so far as to base his lawsuit on the fact that he had been presented to the world as a “Holocaust denier.” The admission by the judge was devastating for van Pelt, who had devoted part of his life to trying to find evidence of the homicidal “gas chambers’” existence. Here it is: “I have to confess that, in common I suspect with most other people, I had supposed that the evidence of mass extermination of Jews in the gas chambers at Auschwitz was compelling. I have, however, set aside this preconception when assessing the evidence adduced by the parties in these proceedings” (High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division 1996-I-1113, Judgment, § 13.71; http://www.fpp.co.uk/docs/trial/judgment/extract1.html).
Dr. Arthur Robert Butz concludes that “there are excellent grounds, based on the public record, for believing that Kempner abused the power he had at the military tribunals, and produced ‘evidence’ by improper methods involving threats and various forms of coercion.”[15]
People out to prove something gruesome about the Holocaust, or innately evil about the Germans often run into a buzz-saw, and they always contrive exquisite machinations for recovering from the misadventure, even as Milgram himself seems to have papered over and otherwise misrepresented forms of the experiments he conducted that forcefully contradicted the initial, sensational results with which he managed to propel himself to fame[3]. An example of this was Jan Karski, who in 1943 was sent to the Belzec “extermination camp” only to discover, and report to his superiors, that he found no evidence of killing there, but only of transfer of the inmates to other, unknown destinations. That fiasco was memorably chronicled by Friedrich Jansson in the Winter 2014 issue of Inconvenient History.
The argument that only a fraction of the corpses were burned is not valid, since the Soviet and Polish forensic examinations of Treblinka would have discovered hundreds of thousands of corpses. The Allies would have shown these corpses to the world as proof of German genocide.
He refers to the “special order” (Sonderbefehl) of 12 August 1942, with which the commandant of Auschwitz imparted the following directive:[3]
Clothing removal during the selections is also unheard-of. Furthermore if Steinberg was deported in 1942 he could not have seen Mengele who was at Birkenau after May 1943. But Steinberg gives even more fanciful details. After the selection, in order to drown the cries of those selected to die, a group of naked (!) Gypsy women banged on drums (p. 101)! And here’s what followed:
Photo 8: Entrance to gas chamber.
Fortunately, gaffes of this magnitude are largely absent from Novick’s treatment, and leaves it—the great majority of the book—relevant, informative, well supported, and even readable. His only other omission, reparation payments from Germany, he could have chosen to omit because it did not concern only—or particularly—recipients in America, though I’d confidently wager that the bulk of payments have gone to recipients in that country ever since they were instituted in 1952. But they’re global, right? His omission of the ambiguous reception Holocaust victims received in Israel is, again, mercifully excludable because the subject—right there in the title—concerns the Holocaust in American life.[1]
When President Carter issued the executive order establishing the Holocaust Museum he used (what is, we are now told) Wiesenthal's figure: “11 million victims of the Holocaust.”
According to eyewitness claims, thousands of bodies, some of them even frozen, were incinerated within a day with a minimal amount of fuel on pyres, which according to Arad had a surface area of 1,000 m² (Treblinka) and 1,500 m² (Belzec and Sobibór). At the end of this process, only ashes and small bone fragments are said to have been left behind. The latter could easily be crushed to dust with stampers. As incredible as such claims may sound, they have been considered to be true so far and were accepted as evidence by various courts of laws.
Kounio’s experience is typical of most Holocaust survivors: Hard work, illness, beatings, anguish and extreme hunger. But what does he have to say about the extermination story?
Therefore the “Solution of the Jewish Problem” at Auschwitz referred simply to measures for the construction of housing for 100,000 inmates.
Although the judge himself conceded that the structures shown to tourists at Auschwitz are not the original “gas chambers,” he nevertheless proceeded to reject every exhibit and expert witness for the defense on the grounds that the Auschwitz gas chambers have been historically proven.
“The transport from Auschwitz Concentration Camp, having arrived on 3.8.44, consisted exclusively of Gypsy women from Birkenau, women who were still alive.”[57]
This description fits partially with Crematoriums II-III (Kounio seems to ignore that the rest were of a different design). In the basement there were actually four rooms forming a Γ shape: Morgue #1 (the alleged gas chamber), Morgue #2 (the alleged undressing room), Morgue #3 (later subdivided into smaller office and utility rooms), and a hallway connecting them all with the elevator leading upstairs.[1] Also, Kounio places a cabinet with soaps in the gas chamber, not mentioned by any other witness.
"On the same trip, I visited the house of Anne Frank. It’s been years since I read The Diary of Anne Frank, and I thought I had internalized her story and its meaning. Yet visiting the Anne Frank museum with my daughter on this trip, I could barely stop crying—in fact, I couldn’t stop crying—as I walked through the rooms of her family’s house. Seeing where she slept, unable to run outside and play or even look at sunlight through the window; seeing the places on her wall where her father pasted pictures from magazines so it wouldn’t seem quite so dreary; thinking of the extraordinary, daily tension and fear that were experienced by those hiding in those rooms as well as by their friends who were hiding them; thinking of all the years they survived that way, only to have their hiding place betrayed a year before the end of the war; and thinking of Anne’s horrifying days at Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, only to die one month before the liberation of the camps—I could hardly bear the weight of such sorrow, mixed with Anne’s profound and compassionate insights into the nature of the human heart. I thought about her father’s survival, his learning of his family’s death, his publishing Anne’s diaries—and always with the realization that this same tale of suffering was experienced not once but 6 million times."
The other three members of the “Goldstone Commission” have emphatically repudiated Goldstone’s repudiation, relegating him, evidently, to a condition not unlike that experienced by many other victims of Zionist retribution such as Rudolf Höss, former commandant of Auschwitz who, in a Polish prison, is said to have penned a “confession” in which he detailed the measures by which Jews were “exterminated” in large numbers in the vast facility over which he had cognizance. Höss was well aware, and had presumably been reminded of, the ability and willingness of his interrogators to affect the welfare of Höss’s wife and son. Goldstone, having been “gotten to” by members of what at least previously he had regarded as “his own” community, must now be written off as a source of information on which the judicious (among whom we might hope to count the Security Council of the United Nations) might base their own judgments of horrific events in Gaza that occurred back in ’08.
Since few if any of the bodies of the alleged 2.5 million murdered Soviet Jews have been found, the official Holocaust historiography claims they were cremated in what is called Aktion 1005. An article in the Encyclopedia of the Holocaust defines this operation: “Operation 1005, code name for a large-scale activity that aimed to obliterate the traces of the murder of millions of human beings by the Nazis in occupied Europe.”[12]
Schelvis wants the reader to believe that Globocnik and Himmler wanted to destroy “evidence of exterminations.” Quite the contrary. The Germans were aware of the false atrocity tales of the Allies and Zionists, and they may have wanted to destroy Camp Sobibor so that its remains could not be used to create propaganda lies that could ultimately be used against them.
The orthodox narrative has it that, after a selection, those unfit to work were sent to the gas chambers, some of which were disguised as shower rooms. But again, some witnesses have quite a different story to tell.
“that clean, industrious people, fond of kids, fond of music, fond of tyranny, fond of aggression, fond of gas chambers.” (Here Is Germany, 7:27-7:39)
The issue here is not ethnicity or religious identity. The issue is intellectual freedom. Weighing evidence is not a hate crime, no matter what Hillel or the ADL says about it. Critiquing a government-sponsored “Holocaust” museum is not a thought crime! And charging that it is hateful to doubt what others sincerely believe is juvenile, particularly on a university campus. What are the real motives of those who would try to convince us otherwise?
With this subject, the generally pejorative label "revisionist" is replaced by the heretical "denier." The psychological impact of the term "Holocaust denier," long and relentlessly inculcated in the public mind since its constituent minds were young, immediately signals the audience that the one charged is devious, vindictive, hateful and possibly even criminal, obviating all questions including the crucial one of guilt.
Departing Buna, the Jews arrive at Gleiwitz, where they are hurriedly installed in their new barracks by the Kapos. In their haste to occupy this refuge, this “gateway to life” as Elie calls it, he also describes how they “walked over pain-racked bodies” and “trod on wounded faces” to get inside. Elie and his father are themselves victim to this, as they are thrown to the ground by a rolling tide of humanity. Elie finds he is now in fact crushing someone he knows, a voice from the past, and in his effort to disengage himself, does some mean and horrible things, e.g., digging his nails into others’ faces, and “biting all around.” Elie discovers it is Juliek he has been crushing, the boy from Warsaw who played the violin in the orchestra at Buna. Despite the crush, swollen feet and lack of air, it is not his own life Juliek is concerned for, but his violin. He’s got it with him and is afraid it will be broken.
Dr. Mengele’s alleged crimes are not proven by any document. No document shows that Mengele ever killed even one single child, or that one single child was ever killed on his orders. The essential and sole witness, the one upon whose testimony the whole accusation was based, was an extraordinarily creative imposter. Dr. Mengele’s closest collaborators, including the presumed essential witness, and at least 543 of his “victims” were allowed to live: but how, then, are we to believe seriously in the fairy tale of the “Angel of Death” of Auschwitz?[33]
Dutch prosecutions do however take place on grounds of racial discrimination: it being there prohibited to “deliberately offend a group of people because of their race, their religion or beliefs.” Accused in this manner, one should tell the Court that most people could be glad, not offended, at being told that their relatives had not died in gas chambers.
A subsequent examination conducted by the Krakow Forensic Institute on behalf of the Auschwitz Main Museum undertaken in September 1990, paralleled the findings contained in the Leuchter Report. This fact is especially pertinent since their report was ostensibly undertaken to refute Leuchter’s conclusions.
James Pool, on the subject of the funding of Hitler, spends thirty pages attempting to show that Ford might have given money to the NSDAP on the sole basis that he was anti-Jewish. He frequently cites Ludecke, but decides to ignore what Ludecke stated on Ford. Pool states that Frau Winifred Wagner had told him in an interview that she had arranged for Ludecke to meet Ford, which is correct, but it is evident that her claim that Ford gave Hitler money is pure assumption. Pool conjectures that the money was given by Ford to Hitler via Boris Brasol, an anti-Semitic Czarist jurist, who in 1918 had worked for U.S. Military Intelligence, and had who maintained contact with both the Nazi party and was U.S. representative for Grand Duke Cyril. Again Pool is making assumptions, on the basis that Brasol was employed by Ford. Pool’s “evidence” is the same as that used by Sutton; contemporary newspaper accounts of rumors and allegations.[31]
The Treblinka Camp was last in line to become the object of modern archeological research. This included the use of high-technology devices such as LIDAR scans and ground-penetrating radar. Core samples and minor excavations were also conducted, although apparently on a much smaller scale than at Sobibór. No dedicated research report, paper or book seems to have been published as a result of it, but the lead researcher, Dr. Caroline Sturdy Colls, did include some of her findings in a general book on the forensics and archeology of mass-murder sites.[8] A written revisionist critique published two years prior to the appearance of that book could analyze only small bits of information that had been published in rather superficial media items, hence is of merely limited value.[9] A revisionist video documentary addressing Sturdy Colls’s research limits itself to what had appeared during a 2013 TV documentary,[10] hence has a narrow focus as well.[11]
Israeli Holocaust historian Yitzhak Arad and other historians are now promoting the idea that the Einsatzgruppen with support from the German Army murdered almost every Jew in the Soviet Union.[5] In his book The Holocaust in the Soviet Union, Arad discusses the difficulty of obtaining exact figures of Jews who died in the Soviet Union during World War II:
In the past few decades, a group of intrepid investigators has emerged, one that challenges the conventional view of history. Researchers who do this are generally known as revisionists; they seek to revise the orthodox account of some past event. Holocaust revisionists, however, are a special breed. They challenge not simply historians, but an entire infrastructure dedicated to maintaining and promoting the standard view. The conventional Holocaust story is sustained by hundreds, if not thousands of individuals: authors, scholars, filmmakers, publishers, academics, and the criminal-justice systems of several large countries. These orthodox historians are well paid; some have large staffs and budgets at their disposal, and many enjoy the patronage of media, government, and the corporate world.
Nonetheless the ADL calls E. Michael Jones an "anti-Semitic Catholic writer." The ADL's profile says that he does not deny the Holocaust but instead “goes so far as to justify ... the Nazi Holocaust.” In fact Jones never “justified” the Holocaust: he used to say that the Holocaust was a bad reaction to bad Jewish behavior. In other words, he accepted the Holocaust as a true story, and even incorporated it into some of his rhetoric -- although for some years he has seemed open to the possibility that elements of the story might not be true (perhaps influenced by Bishop Richard Williamson's famous espousal of Fred Leuchter's findings).
October. Paul Rassinier’s book Le Mensonge d’Ulysse: regard sur la littérature concentrationnaire (The Lies of Ulysses: a look at the concentration camp literature), is published by Éditions Bressanes (Bourg-en-Bresse), with a preface by Albert Paraz (1899-1957). Rassinier (1906-1967) was a socialist and pacifist who during the war had been imprisoned in the concentration camps Buchenwald and Dora-Mittelbau. Following the war, Rassinier reacted strongly against the lies and exaggerations in the writings of former fellow inmates Abbé Renard and Eugen Kogon. In Le Mensonge d’Ulysse, Rassinier denies the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Buchenwald, which had been alleged by Renard and others, and likewise disputes the existence of such installations at Bergen-Belsen, Dachau and Mauthausen. At the time of writing, however, Rassinier believed that the gas chambers rumors had some basis in reality, and that some gassings may have been carried out in Auschwitz and other camps in the east, while suggesting that such murderous actions were the work
Traditional historians and academics are all forced to uphold the Holocaust story to keep their jobs. Most historians write as if all aspects of the Holocaust story are well documented and irrefutable. For example, one historian who laments the outlawing of Holocaust revisionism states: “The Holocaust is an incontestable fact.”[19] However, major aspects of the Holocaust story are easily contestable. It is a felony in many European countries to question the Holocaust story because major aspects of the Holocaust story are easy to disprove.
As for Liepāja (Libau), its Jewish population in 1935 amounted to 7,379. Some additional 300 Jews lived in nearby towns.[80] By June 1941 the number of the Liepāja Jews had decreased to an estimated 7,140. On 14 June 1941 Soviet authorities deported 209 Jews from the city to Siberia, and in the following two weeks about 300 Jews fled to the USSR to escape the German invasion; another 160 local Jewish soldiers and guards retreated with the Red Army, so that some 6,589 Jews remained in Liepāja when the city was captured by German forces on 29 June 1941.[81] In the aforementioned letter of Drechsler’s from early October 1941 it is stated that some 5,500 Jews remained in the province of Courland (Latvian. Kurzeme, the western part of Latvia) whose capital is Liepāja, and that these Jews were to be concentrated in a ghetto in Liepāja. In the also abovementioned report of Department II of the General Commissariat of Latvia from 20 November 1941 the number of Jews registered in Liepāja is given as 3,890, of whom 3,002 were adults able to work, 106 adults unable to work and 782 children. According to Holocaust historian Katrin Reichelt the Jews of Liepāja were subjected to the following massacres during 1941:[82]
The German prisoners in postwar Soviet, Polish and Czech concentration camps were subject to brutal treatment resulting in the loss of many tens of thousands of lives. Their treatment was probably worse than the treatment of prisoners in German-run concentration camps during World War II.
If 285,000 persons could be gassed in two years (731 days), this would have meant (285,000 ÷ 731 =) 390 gas chamber murders per day. If the capacity of the gas chamber amounted to 60 victims, 6-7 daily gassing operations would have been needed, even on Sundays and holidays. To give the devil his due, Semyonov, the author of Shn-1, does not claim that this theoretical capacity was ever reached in practice, and in the subsequent drafts the subject is quietly dropped.
Reading orthodox literature on the Holocaust in Lithuania one generally gains the impression that there existed only a handful camps in this country during the German occupation. However, as seen above, a minor survey of some easily available sources clearly indicates that there existed at least some 43 camps with Jewish detainees on Lithuanian soil. Of the camps listed some 90% were located in south-eastern Lithuania, near Vilna or Kovno. How many camps existed in other parts of the country that the authors of these sources were either not aware of or had no reason to mention?
[10] There are two more possibilities as to the origins of the Gleiwitz report/incident, one of which is that it is an Abwehr/Grenzpolizei fabrication, the other of which it is a Polish-British fabrication. I explore both hypotheses in detail, accompanied by a wide range of evidence, in my two-volume book on the topic. Please see Volumes 1 and 2 of The Gleiwitz Incident: Nazi False Flag or Media Hoax?, which is available directly from me or from Amazon.
The numbers of victims, and especially the numbers of Jews, are the main points of contention. Like most Holocaust camps and death sites, the range of estimates is vast. Individuals sympathetic to the Ustasa regime, like former president Franjo Tudjman, regularly gave figures of just 3,000 to 4,000 total. Such numbers date back to the first forensic examinations of the camp in 1947. But by the 1970s and 1980s, the numbers were rising; the 1990 Encyclopedia of the Holocaust (p. 189) claimed, without evidence, that around 300,000 bodies were discovered and exhumed there.
while leaving the 6-million Jewish death toll basically unchanged.[15] This would mean that as many as 14 million non-Jews died in the Holocaust, not just five.
This is a book which indicates something of the hidden intrigue and duplicity of Governments. It is small wonder that 60 years afterwards, when Martin Allen had found documentary evidence and published those in his book that there are howls of 'forged documents' – to try and play down the information that has come to light. Why cannot the British Government, 60 years after the end of World War II, declare what really happened all those years ago?
“As to whether British Intelligence made propaganda use of the story, the evidence produced by Irving extended no further than second-hand accounts of BBC broadcasts about the gassing. There was no indication that British intelligence played any part in these broadcasts. In my judgment the evidence does not support the claim made by Irving.”
Holocaust denial is nothing but antisemitism.
Public denial or trivialization of the crimes defined in Article 6 of the Charter of the International Military Tribunal appended to the London Agreement of 8 April 1945 in a manner liable to disturb the public peace;
Photo 12: Birkenau main gate.
Since the felling of 1 hectare of forest would produce the fuel needed to cremate (870,000 ÷ 278.4 =) 3,125 bodies, but significantly fewer if the wood was not seasoned, it follows that the air photos, rather than confirming the claims of 870,000 incinerated gas chamber victims, indicate a number of cremated bodies in the range of some ten thousands. It is likely that out of the at least 713,555 deportees sent to the camp in trains, a small percentage perished en route due to exhaustion, dehydration, illnesses, and pressure injuries or suffocation caused by panicking fellow deportees. It is claimed that an especially large number of en route deaths, caused by loaded deportation trains being delayed at way stations, took place during Dr. Irmfried Eberl’s time as camp commandant.[33] In late August 1942, Eberl was fired for incompetence and replaced by Franz Stangl.
On 14th August 1993 News Weekly noted the infamous manner in which the US could obtain denaturalisations and extraditions: ‘Unlike Australia, the United States did not enact legislation to try Nazi war crimes cases. Instead, civil hearings – which require far less rigorous evidence than criminal trials – are used against suspected Nazis to strip them of the protection of US citizenship. Thus exposed, they are deported to their former countries or – in Demjanjuk’s case – to whoever wants them.’
During the past four decades mainstream historians have made some surprising admissions with regard to the traditional Holocaust story, the alleged premeditated mass murder of six million Jews by the Germans during WWII, mainly with the use of “gas chambers.” Let us review some of them.
Der Holocaust ist so wichtig, dass sogar die Vereinten Nationen beschlossen, ihm einen eigenen Gedenktag zu widmen. An jedem 27. Januar, als das berüchtigte Lager Auschwitz 1945 von der sowjetischen Roten Armee besetzt wurde, wird die ganze Welt daran erinnert, den Opfern des Holocaust zu gedenken.[2] Im Jahr 2017, anlässlich dieses Internationalen Holocaust-Gedenktages, veröffentlichte das Weiße Haus unter US-Präsident Donald Trump diese Erklärung:[3]
“Bauer and other historians who knew Wiesenthal said the Nazi-hunter told them that he chose the 5 million number carefully: He wanted a number large enough to attract the attention of non-Jews who might not otherwise care about Jewish suffering, but not larger than the actual number of Jews who were murdered in the Holocaust, 6 million. […]
It is true that there have been references to the use of gas chambers in other reports; but these references have usually, if not always, been equally vague, and since they have concerned the extermination of Jews, have usually emanated from Jewish sources.
In this issue of Inconvenient History we feature an unprecented three reviews of a single new volume. After more than a decade Samuel Crowell's magnum opus, The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes has finally come into print. The significance of this work is so great that we have decided to run reviews by historian Michael K. Smith, myself, and newcomer Ezra MacVie. We are also running two lengthy revisionist studies. First, Thomas Kues has provided the conclusion to the article begun last issue on the story of the little known Maly Trostenets "extermination camp." Paul Grubach has also examined the recent work of Deborah Lipstadt regarding the trial of Adolf Eichmann. Grubach reveals some shocking double standards and even what he considers a contribution to historical revisionism by this well-known anti-revisionist. We also welcome back Martin Gunnells who reviews the recently published 25th anniversary edition of Michael Hoffman's story of Ernst Zündel's false news trials, The Great Holocaust Trial. Rounding out this issue is assistant editor Jett Rucker who considers the events of the recent Richard Goldstone affair, something he calls instant self-revisionism.
Tansill’s associations, as well perhaps as the strength of his arguments have resulted in his condemnation by outspoken members of the anti-revisionist crowd. Deborah Lipstadt in her anti-revisionist screed, Denying the Holocaust wrote, “Tansill set out a number of arguments that would become essential elements of Holocaust denial.”[24] While Tansill did not comment on the Holocaust in his writing, he is subject to the ad hominem attack and damning label of “denier” because he dared to question the accepted version of responsibility for the Second World War.
Note: This video replaces Eric Hunt’s Questioning the Holocaust: Why We Believed, Part 1, which had a number of quality issues.
“Holocaust denial is alive and well in the highest offices of the United States. It is being spread by those in President Trump's innermost circle.”
“After the fortieth anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz and after the ‘Mengele Tribunal’ had been staged on occasion of that anniversary in Jerusalem, the search for Mengele was intensified drastically. The reward leading to his capture was increased by the government of the German state of Hesse from 40,000 to one million deutschmarks, and the reward finally reached the staggering height of ten million deutschmarks due to private donations. Along with the intensified search for Mengele, the media’s interest in the case escalated as well. The ‘Angel of Death of Auschwitz’ offered perfect opportunities for an incessant flood of sensational news, and increasingly cruel and shocking crimes committed by Mengele were revealed with reference to witnesses. The mass murderer Mengele turned into the evil incarnate as such, the outright superhuman demon, as Robert Lifton writes.”
Other historians cite evidence that bodies were incinerated beyond recognition. Alexander McKee quotes Hildegarde Prasse on what she saw at the Altmarkt after the Dresden bombings:
It is of paramount importance to distinguish clearly between the alleged “gas vans of Chelmno” (of which no trace has ever been found) and the wreck of the furniture van the photograph of which was for decades presented as evidence of the existence of gas vans. Jerzy Halbersztadt extensively quotes from the protocols of interrogation of the three Polish car mechanics Jozef Piaskowski, Bronislaw Mankowski and Bronislaw Falborski, who said they had been employed by the Reichsstrassenbauamt and claimed to have personally seen the gas vans several times. Their statements seem to corroborate the criminal function ascribed to these vehicles. If we are to follow these three witnesses, the exhaust pipe of the van had been modified, and the floor of the load compartment had an opening through which the exhaust gas could be led into the load compartment. Several revisionist researchers (Ingrid Weckert, Carlo Mattogno, Pierre Marais and Santiago Alvarez) have pointed out extensive incongruities and contradictions in these descriptions of the alleged killing technique. However we will not dwell on this aspect of the question but return to the damaged van instead. In this context the following three facts are crucially important:
In December 2006, Smith was invited to and delivered a talk to an international delegation at the Tehran Holocaust Conference, “The Irrational Vocabulary of the American Professorial Class with Regard to the Holocaust Question.”
While it is documented and acknowledged by the Holocaust historians that a transport from Theresienstadt carrying 1,000 Jews bound for Estonian Raasiku departed on 1 September 1942, mainstream historiography is unaware of any transports of Polish Jews to Estonia.
Kahn appears to be more concerned with the “symbolic” or deterrent or psychological effect Holocaust denial laws may have in dissuading prospective revisionists from publicly airing their views. Thus, the objective in such a case would serve to intimidate individuals from freely expressing their opinions because they are objectionable to specific parties.
[22] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 177.
While the USHMM was unable to find a “smoking gun” that supports the orthodox narrative, researchers should examine the documents for evidence of the truth of the events of these years. What does the diary reveal, if anything, about programs of mass deportation? What does it say about the epidemics that ran through the camps? Is there evidence that the National Socialist leadership sought to fight such epidemics? What evidence in the diary actually upholds the revisionist position?
This is supported by Israeli historian Arad, as he published a large portion of the post-war testimony of Kurt Gerstein, a German officer who was allegedly deeply involved with the extermination of Jews in the Operation Reinhardt camps. In the Gerstein testimonial, it is stated that a diesel engine was used at Sobibor, and also at Majdanek, Treblinka, and Belzec. More specifically, Gerstein quotes SS and Police Leader Odilo Globocnik, who gives Gerstein his alleged instructions: “Your other duty will be to improve the service of our gas chambers, which function on diesel engine exhaust.”[20] According to the traditional Holocaust story, Globocnik was a major supervisor of the alleged mass exterminations at Sobibor, and he should have most certainly known the exact nature of the “gas chamber” weapon.
The original charge against John Demjanjuk—that he was a brutal guard who operated the “gas chambers” of Treblinka—was shown to be unfounded. Could it be that this new charge against Mr. Demjanjuk—that he herded Jews into the “gas chambers” of Sobibor—is even more baseless than the original one?
Bobby Fischer was widely criticized for his controversial statements outside of chess. For example, Dick and Jeremy Schaap questioned Fischer’s sanity, while Charles Krauthammer wrote that “he’s clearly a sick man.”[xxxiv] However, it would be more accurate to state that Fischer used his prodigious intellect to read widely and deeply to discover many of the lies that pervade our society. His exposure of the Holocaust hoax is especially praiseworthy. Bobby Fischer was truly an authentic American hero.
These are half-truths: coke braziers were probably used in the morgues during construction, because the crematoria were built in the winter months, and air surely was exhausted from some of the morgues; that was, after all, why the ventilation system had been installed in the first place – but to present them as yet another element in a collection of “converging evidence” is weakening rather than strengthening the “case for Auschwitz.”
The six “Russian barracks“ designated for the Soviet POWs at Sachsenhausen were named Kriegsgefangenen-Arbeitslager and strictly separated from the rest of the camp (Russen-isolierung). From an administrative point of view this sector was not a part of the concentration camp but became part of Kriegsgefangenen-Stalag Oranienburg instead.[9] Owing to the massive influx of POWs, the usual registration procedure which included delousing and 14 days of quarantine was apparently not observed, and within a short period of time typhus was rampant in the camp.
The camp reminded me of the German Labor Front camp in which I served out my six-month stretch in the Labor Service, except that Auschwitz was, of course, considerably larger...None of the inmates behaved as though they were in fear of mistreatment, let alone death.
On 4 August 1943, SS-Sturmbannführer Karl Bischoff, head of the Zentralbauleitung, replied to SS-Hauptsturmführer Eduard Wirths, Auschwitz garrison physician, who had requested the construction of masonry morgues:
Undated. Hans Ulrich Rudel, at the time a leading member of the German Reich Party, publishes the war diary Trotzdem (“Nevertheless”, translated into English as Stuka Pilot) in which he expresses skepticism towards the concentration camp atrocity stories and denounces what he perceives as Allied hypocrisy:
This embarrassing kind of eyewitness testimony was not at all what Sabina Citron had in mind. As Hoffman writes, “Now the Jewish lobby was getting panicky. Their entire cult was being revealed for the cheap media hoax that it was: A fraud built on ‘testimonies’ and ‘confessions’ and movies, books and articles based on the confessions and the testimonies.” Although the Holocausters thought they would have a quick, effortless victory against the dissident publisher and his demonic legion of hate, the trial became uglier and uglier for Citron and Co. as the weeks dragged on. In fact, Hoffman shows that, during Zündel’s 1988 appeal trial, not a single Holocaust survivor agreed to take the stand for the prosecution. They, along with the prosecution’s premier expert, Holocaust historian Raul Hilberg, refused to be re-interrogated about what we all know is “the best-documented event in history.”
As results from Semyonov’s first draft (Shn-1), the Soviet experts initially tried to ascribe a huge capacity to the crematoria. From their point of view, this was necessary because otherwise they would have been unable to claim such gigantic numbers of victims (one ESC report baldly stated that no fewer that 840,000 Soviet prisoners of war had been killed at Sachsenhausen). [78] Since these figures were patently ridiculous from a purely technical point of view, they were tacitly dropped, and the capacity of the ovens was not even mentioned in the following drafts.
Several speakers from the Coalition argued strongly that there was no adequate evidence that the Australian people as a whole wanted any such bill. Mr. Nehl (the member for Cowper) reported: “It is interesting, too, that when the government first brought in its bill, in 1992, it had community consultations right around Australia. There were 646 submissions on the bill received from the public, and 563 were opposed to the legislation. There were only 83 in favor of it.”[10] Opposition speakers also claimed that the bill did not really have the support of ethnic minorities in the nation, it being seen as unnecessary and potentially divisive; Government speakers claimed otherwise.[11]
Grubach took particular aim at the ruling of US District Court Judge Paul. R. Matia at the end of the 2002 hearing. The judge stated that ‘In serving at Sobibor, Defendant [John Demjanjuk] contributed to the process by which thousands of Jews were murdered by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide.’ He also claimed that ‘This [case against John Demjanjuk] is a case of documentary evidence, not eyewitness testimony.’ Grubach pointed out that that second statement is misleading. ‘The current case about Demjanjuk allegedly serving at Sobibor is based upon purportedly authentic documents. But what Matia asserts about Sobibor being an “extermination camp” is based exclusively upon eyewitness testimony.’
That day, I decided to load three of these machines onto a white van, one of which is now on exhibit at the Shoah Memorial at Paris (p. 200).
Once again, we quote Mark 10: 19: “You know the commandments: …You shall not bear false witness.” Why is Bishop Farrell possibly guilty of “Bearing False Witness?” He falsely claimed (either because of ignorance or prejudice) that the traditional version of the Holocaust is an etched-in-stone fact, when in reality it is very questionable.
Leuchter submitted samples taken from the alleged gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek to Alpha Analytical Laboratories, a top forensic laboratory in Massachusetts in order to test them for cyanide residues. The samples were analyzed to determine the total iron and total cyanide content. Each sample received an identification number. The results of the tests were startling, in that they revealed little or no actual presence of cyanide compounds in most of the samples submitted.
As shown above, Cavendish-Bentinck went much further than pointing out the absence of evidence. He compared these latest “atrocity stories” to a “grotesque lie” perpetrated against Germany during the First World War, and suggested to a senior colleague that Britain should not be “publicly giving credence to this gas-chambers story”. How on earth could Mr. Justice Gray interpret this as meaning anything else but that Cavendish-Bentinck (at any rate in August 1943) disbelieved the story!
Furthermore, it is a very inefficient scheme at best; the poison gas would only slowly and unevenly diffuse into the room. Better to employ some kind of heated, forced-air system that would quickly circulate the deadly gas. And in fact, the Germans had precisely such a system—and only three rooms away. Room #1 (see Photo 2) contains four actual Zyklon disinfesting chambers, with sophisticated dispensing systems. Photo 14 shows the exterior of these chambers, and Photo 15 the machine for opening and retaining the pellets, and forcing hot air through them. These rooms were very effective at delousing linens, clothing, and personal items, and thus preventing the spread of the deadly typhus disease.[15] Evidently the Germans wanted to spare lives in the camp, not end them.
Questioning or revising an historical event is not a matter for courts or legislative assemblies to decide. Indeed, in rendering verdicts against accused “deniers,” most courts simply take “judicial notice” of the judgment rendered by the legally questionable International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg, conducted under the auspices of the victorious allies. In fact, it was neither international, nor military, nor a Tribunal in the strict sense, for it served as both judge and aggrieved party to the cases over which it pronounced judgment. Historical disputes involving the existence or non-existence of homicidal gas chambers in the concentration camps must be placed before the bar of history and forensic specialists, chemists, scientists and criminologists rather than before the courts. If arbitrary laws seek to prosecute historical revisionists, then certain criteria as described in the law must be proved. As they now stand, Holocaust denial laws appear to deliberately conflate the process of generating controversy with “disturbing the public peace.” Moreover, the laws are based upon a flagrant double standard, for they are arbitrarily applied only to one specific group of individuals: those deemed to be Holocaust deniers.
Rather paradoxically, it would seem that the “Holocaust deniers” have only succeeded in inciting hatred against themselves!
Carbon-monoxide gas can be used to efficiently kill people in homicidal gas chambers. The dead bodies from the gassings can also be safely removed by personnel wearing only a gas mask. Richard von Hegener observed that patients in the euthanasia program would lose consciousness within two to three minutes of the gas entering the room. Within five minutes all of the patients had fallen into a “kind of sleep.” The gas was left running for half an hour before a physician, protected by a gas mask, entered the room, examined the bodies, and pronounced that all of the patients were dead.[17]
[1] Black, Edwin, IBM and the Holocaust: The Strategic Alliance between Nazi Germany and America’s Most Powerful Corporation, New York: Crown Publishers, 2001, p. 7; all subsequent page numbers in the text from there.
The three mass shootings in October 1941[82] killed approximately 5,200 Jews, 450 Gypsies and 805 Jews and Gypsies[83]—a maximum total of 1,000-1,200 Gypsies at most.[84] But the same Germans estimated the Gypsy population of Serbia in 1943 at 115,000,[85] which means that the killing victims amounted to approximately 1% of the total [Gypsy] population. The degree to which the National Socialist authorities intended to carry out a Holocaust of the Gypsies is shown by the fact that 282 Gypsies (women and children) were released from internment in the presumed extermination camp of Semlin, where 5,000-6,000,[86] or 7,500, Jewish women and children, are said to have been killed in gas vans; yet the Gypsies had been interned in this same camp.[87]
David Irving’s identity as a neo-Nazi and Holocaust denier is well known, and because of it he has been forced to self-publish in the U. K. Your attempt to elevate him to mainstream status in the U. S. is the single most repugnant act I’ve witnessed in over a decade of publishing. You should be ashamed of yourself. Don’t send me any more books for blurbs. Anything with the St. Martin’s label on it will go straight in the trash.[50]
A torrent of discussion for and against the Brandis proposals now erupted in the public forums of Australia. Opponents of these changes unscrupulously made strident use of an unfortunate statement by the Attorney-General in Parliament to the effect that Australians “had a right to be bigots”. He meant, of course, that they had a right to express views which others would see as bigotry. He was not defending bigotry as being socially desirable or worthy in itself of legal protection. This would have been obvious to any thoughtful observer; thus, the over-the-top response to his statement, which would be sustained over the next four and a half months, suggests that crusaders against free speech on race were either possessed by a blinding spirit of fanaticism or ruthlessly determined to get their way by foul means as well as fair. A slogan involving opposition to “giving the green light to bigotry” was erected like a Chinese wall to prevent reasonable discussion. Wilson, the new Freedom Commissioner for the AHRC, perceived this and at once noted that “free speech and acceptable conduct” were “incorrectly being conflated”, since the overall issue was “not about the acceptability of racism.”[45] And retired academic Merv Bendle observed: “Ever since the 17th Century and the abolition of the Star Chamber and the proclamation of the Bill of Rights, the battle for free speech has been waged against ruling classes and elites seeking to protect their entrenched interests against public criticism. As the Andrew Bolt case revealed, nothing has changed as favored groups seek to preserve their status and privileges by prohibiting debate. Consequently, the accusations of racism and bigotry being directed against the federal government over its efforts to modify the RDA are merely a smokescreen and should be dismissed and George Brandis supported for his courageous initiative.”[46]
The blows that were not in evidence forcing prisoners into the flaming pit now rain down volubly to encourage those who survived to go to the barber to get their haircut! And the people wielding the truncheons are fellow prisoners. Not only is Elie’s hair cut with clippers, but his whole body is shaved. He and his companions are all the while naked, carrying only their original belt and shoes. And apparently they are still naked afterward as they wander into the courtyard meeting old friends and acquaintances. Some are joyful and some are weeping. And Elie admits to something that would become more and more pronounced as his story progresses, viz., that those who were dead and departed “no longer touched even the surface of our memories.” They would speak of them, but with little concern for their fate. Elie tells us why: because their senses are blunted. Because “everything was blurred as in a fog.” Or a dream? In any event, it was no longer possible to grasp anything. Self-preservation, self-defense, pride – all had deserted them.
Chopra thus supports the idea that the trauma experienced by “Holocaust” survivors can be genetically passed on to their offspring.
It will be noticed that the “delousing” apparatus referred to is in fact a Gas Chamber installation as pictured in the pamphlet herewith entitled “Die kleine TESTA-FIBEL über Normal-gaskammern”. These chambers [10 cubic meter delousing chambers. –FJ] are certainly large enough to have been used for the purpose of annihilation of human beings. [...]
A convinced believer in the traditional view of the Holocaust, Dr. Herf claims: “The radical anti-Semitism that accompanied and justified the Holocaust described Jews first and foremost as a racially constituted political subject.”[35] Well lo and behold! Something strikingly like this “radical anti-Semitic idea” has led to Israel’s interest in scientific studies that delineate genetic/racial differences between Jews and non-Jews.
I think that is arguable. In any case, this bill needs to be seen in a context that goes far beyond that of Australia; a context that includes a number of other countries that have been mentioned in debate on this matter, such as Britain, France, Germany, Austria, Canada, America, where it is quite plain that there is what appears to be a worldwide campaign to inhibit as much as possible the expression of certain controversial views on various topics associated with race, of which the Holocaust and the degree of Jewish influence in national and international politics is one.
A photocopy of this statement, bearing the stamp “International Military Tribunal” (IMT), became document D 749 b. On April 15, 1946, during the deposition of Höss at the IMT in Nuremberg (see below, Section II.10), Colonel Amen presented the document as Exhibit Number USA-810.[36]
To obtain a meager description of the supposed gas chamber, we must return to his testimony of 1995: "This was a large room, on the ceiling there was a fake shower head every meter"[137], or to his testimony in January 2001, which is no less terse:
These daily radio messages also contained additional information related to Auschwitz. Thus, it was reported, for example, that Jewish watchmakers were being transferred to Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp; that Polish workers could only be sent elsewhere [verschickt] after release from quarantine; that British POWs were considered to be urgently needed to work as kapos; and that efforts were being made to locate a successor to the then-acting garrison doctor by September 1942.
Rassinier was also among the earliest proponents to claim that the Zionists purposefully latched onto the persecution of the Jews in order to provide a favorable political and moral climate for establishing the state of Israel at the expense of the indigenous population. In his Le Drame des Juifs européens (The Drama of European Jewry),[18] which was published in 1964, Rassinier advanced the thesis that the widely circulated stories of homicidal gas chambers reputedly used by the National Socialists to murder millions of Jews were stories deliberately nurtured and embellished by opportunistic Zionist propagandists as a political bludgeon to legitimate the illegal seizure of Palestine.
The prosecution’s first witness, U.S. Navy Lt. Jack Taylor, had been a prisoner in Mauthausen beginning April 1, 1945. Taylor testified that his first job in Mauthausen was setting tile in the new crematorium. When asked if he had any judgement as to the number that died daily by violent means, Taylor replied: “Only that the regular procedure for the gas chamber was twice a day, 120 at a time. I would say that the new crematorium increased the facilities to 250 a day.”[3]
Father Desbois was elected Doctor Honoris Causa by Yeshiva University, New York in 2011, by New York University in 2012, and by the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, New York, in 2015. He was also made an Honorary Doctor of Divinity by the University of Winnipeg in 2013, and has been distinguished by a slew of Israeli universities and Jewish organizations. Furthermore, the Université Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne is holding seminars on La “Shoah par Balles” during the current academic year.
At this point, it is interesting to read the testimony of Venezia's fellow unfortunates. His cousin Y. Gabai claimed that they loaded four bodies in every muffle (vier Leichen), which burned completely in half an hour, so that the capacity of Crematorium III was (4 x 15 x 24 x 60 ÷ 30 =) 2,880 bodies in 24 hours[209].
[27] Wear, John, “Did German Homicidal Gas Chambers Exist?,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 12, No. 1, 2020 at https://www.inconvenienthistory.com/12/1/7200. See also Wear, John, “The Chemistry of Auschwitz/Birkenau,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 9, No. 4, 2017 at https://www.inconvenienthistory.com/9/4/5160.
There is a categorical difference between debating these types of [mainstream] questions [about the Holocaust] and debating the very fact of the Holocaust.
We were shown images taken during the final days of a destroyed and collapsed Germany as proof of a systematic, planned extermination program. Upon further investigation by the western Allies, these claims of extermination camps equipped with homicidal gas chambers in western-liberated camps have fallen by the wayside.
The above quote by a “radical feminist,” Betsy Hartmann, is part of a lament on the supposed “right-wing takeover” of the ecology movement, some of whose proponents have apparently been advocating immigration restrictions, which is akin to Nazism for those who reflexively employ reductio ad Hitlerum in their intellectual discourse. As evidence of this, Hartmann cites the editorship of the academic journal Population and Environment by Professor Kevin MacDonald, along with the late J. Philip Rushton who sat on the editorial board, both regarded as “racists.”[5]
‘In view of the fact that ashes and bones were scattered over a burial area comprising more than two square kilometers, the forensic commission estimates that over 200,000 Soviet citizens were exterminated in the Yanov camp.’”
On sait que le Yad Vashem est un institut officiel israélien chargé de la gestion de la mémoire de l’extermination des Juifs par les Allemands; il est un peu l’équivalent de la Congrégation pour la doctrine de la foi romaine. La presse, en pleurs, nous annonce que ce Yad Vashem vient de publier une banque de données sur les victimes de la Shoah.[1] Comme le précise le Yad Vashem, les quelque trois millions de noms actuellement répertoriés sont ceux de « Juifs qui ont péri dans la Shoah », l’objectif étant de retrouver si possible les noms des six millions de morts juifs. En fait, J’affaire se solde par une banqueroute, qui est néanmoins riche d’enseignements.
“Patrick Buchanan, one of the foremost right-wing conservative columnists in the country, used his widely syndicated column to express views that come straight from the scripts of Holocaust deniers. He argued that it was physically impossible for the gas chamber at Treblinka to have functioned as a killing apparatus because the diesel engines that powered it could not produce enough carbon monoxide to be lethal. Buchanan’s ‘proof’ was a 1988 incident in which ninety-seven passengers on a train in Washington, D.C., were stuck in a tunnel as the train emitted carbon monoxide fumes. Because the passengers were not harmed, Buchanan extrapolated that the victims in a gas chamber using carbon monoxide from diesel engines would also not have been harmed. He ignored the fact that the gassings at Treblinka took as long as half an hour and that the conditions created when people are jammed by the hundreds into small enclosures, as they were at Treblinka, are dramatically different from those experienced by a group of people sitting on a train.” (pp. 6f.)
Of particular interest here are Goebbels’s disclosures about Nazi policy toward a final solution (Endlösung) of the Jewish Question, which of course directly relate to our conception of the Holocaust. On the standard view, the entire Nazi leadership, Hitler above all, were rabid anti-Semites who would settle for nothing less than the mass murder of every Jew they could get their hands on. They allegedly pursued this objective even to the detriment of the war effort, and rounded up and gassed Jews until the final few months. Their alleged 6 million victims were burned, buried, or otherwise made to vanish, such that traces of a mere fraction of these bodies have ever been found.
I would like to open a parenthesis here. The historian Marcello Pezzetti, in his essay "La Shoah, Auschwitz e il Sonderkommando" included in Venezia's book, instead of indicating this error, attempts to cover it up, by stating:
At first glance, this sounds quite reasonable; the fires would, after all, be a good beacon for Allied bombers flying through the night. If we reflect a bit on this question, though, things become more than a little less convincing, especially in the light of the FMD evidence which tells us that such pyres burn and smolder for days on end. Therefore, if they were to be made safe for the night, they would have had to be extinguished – an operation which, while possible, would cause a terrible mess as can easily be imagined: the incinerations are said to have been carried out in trenches which would now end up being full of water and half-charred corpses, with wooden logs floating about. It would also be very difficult to restart such fires or any new fires at the same site the following day. The total length of the pyres needed for a repetitive daily load of 10,000 bodies would be several miles, because the business cannot be accomplished within 24 hours - we must remember that it takes several days for human or animal carcasses to burn completely on a pyre.
The history of these drafts proves that such reports were little more than an instrument of Soviet policy and Soviet propaganda, both inside and outside the Soviet borders. Figures and data were treated in a highly arbitrary way. No photographic or documentary evidence was adduced; the accusation was based almost exclusively on eyewitness testimony and the confessions of ”perpetrators“ who had no alternative but to admit anything their jailers demanded. At Nuremberg, the Soviet prosecutors regularly read excerpts from these eyewitness reports and confessions, but the witnesses and ”perpetrators“ themselves were not summoned to testify. What objective value can such ”evidence“ have? As the drafts about the ”crimes of the German-Fascist invaders at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp“ confirm, the authors of the ESC reports made no serious efforts to ascertain the facts. For the historian, these reports provide much more information about the Soviet propaganda agenda than they do about actual events.
If the innocuous body depositories of the crematoria were indeed turned respectively into undressing rooms in one place and gas chambers in another, where was it possible, day by day, to store the bodies of those who had died of natural causes? Let someone show me that area, either on the spot or in the building plans that were kept hidden until I myself discovered them! Where were the bodies put when, particularly, typhus epidemics were wreaking havoc among the detainees, the Polish and German civilians, the German soldiers and doctors in the hospital facilities reserved either for inmates or for soldiers (such as, for example, the SSRevier, situated a few paces away from the Auschwitz-I crematorium)? Let’s recall that those depositories could be of three kinds: 1) for bodies not yet placed in coffins; 2) for bodies in coffins; 3) for infected bodies (with reinforced isolation of the room, which was the case in the Sachsenhausen-Oranienburg camp). Will someone have us believe that, equipped as they were with an undressing room and a gas chamber, those “Nazi” crematoria simply lacked any body depositories? Crematoria without depositories? Only in the realm of fiction!
[6] Wear, John, “Why the Holocaust Story Was Invented,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 9, No. 3, 2017.
With the advent of the internet, Yad Vashem eventually moved its database containing the data of those claimed to have fallen victim to the Holocaust online as well, making it easy to both browse the data and to add new data. This, too, led to some criticism. In the 2005 edition of my Lectures on the Holocaust, the German edition of which appeared in March of that year, I wrote (Castle Hill Publishers, Hastings, pp. 38f.):
According to the cost estimate for the extension of the PoW camp of the Waffen SS at Auschwitz (Kostenvoranschlag zum Ausbau des Kriegsgefangenenlagers der Waffen-SS in Auschwitz) of 1 October 1943, the following barracks existed at the Birkenau Camp:
[20] Bischof, Günter, “Bacque and Historical Evidence,” in Bischof, Günter and Ambrose, Stephen E., (eds.), Eisenhower and the German POWs: Facts Against Falsehood, Baton Rouge and London: Louisiana State University Press, 1992, p. 201.
For his part, E. Wiesel wrote in 1994: “Let the gas chambers remain closed to prying eyes, and to imagination” (All Rivers Run to the Sea / Memoirs, New York, Knopf, 1995, p. 74; original French version: Tous les fleuves vont à la mer / Mémoires, Paris, Seuil, 1994, p. 97); here he makes a confession: that of feeling a terrible embarrassment, which he shares with all his ilk, historians included. When he adds: “We will never know all that happened behind those doors of steel” he is indulging his “imagination,” for the only alleged “gas chamber” that one may visit at Auschwitz has two very ordinary wooden doors, one of which is partially glazed (and opens inwards, where dead bodies had supposedly piled up!); as for the third opening, it gives free access to the room containing furnaces, a coke repository and funerary urns: the ovens, at times heating up to 900° C, would have stood in direct proximity to the “gas chamber” full of a substance – the disinfectant Zyklon B – emitting hydrogen cyanide gas, known for its explosive nature! In the second volume of his memoirs Wiesel returns to this need to say nothing, tell nothing, imagine nothing about the alleged “gassings”: “I believe I know everything, can guess everything, about the victims’ final hours. I shall say nothing. To imagine would be indiscreet. To tell would be indecent,” and he adds that, on the spot, at Auschwitz-Birkenau, “As we get closer to the place where the killers built their gas chambers and their crematories [in reality, ruins of simple crematoria – RF], we clench our teeth and suppress the desire to scream.”
Eventually father and son agreed that no useful purpose would be served in pursuing their discussions further. Rolf said that, unfortunately, he realized that his father “would never express any remorse or feeling of guilt in my presence.”[38] What Rolf Mengele failed to realize is that his father felt no remorse because Mengele was not guilty of the crimes he was accused of committing at Auschwitz.
The accuseds, for their part, were subject to strictures that cut very much in the opposite direction. To begin with, they were barred from arguing against the alleged crimes having even been committed—the defense of corpus delicti (body missing) was denied them by a “judicial notice” the tribunals took to the effect that a practice of deliberate genocide had been pursued by the nation into which the accuseds had been born, and in whose service they took part, whether willingly or through conscription.[5]
Other Jews were shot in retaliatory measures after the discovery of Soviet torture chambers. For example, after the discovery of a torture chamber in the Tarnopol Courthouse, the Germans reacted as follows: “The troops marching through who had the opportunity to see these atrocities, above all the bodies of the murdered German soldiers, killed all of the approximately 600 Jews and set their houses on fire.”[4]
For Desbois, therefore, the rumors repeated by the "witnesses" and the cartridge casings are "convergent proofs of genocide," while cartridge casings are "tangible proofs of massacre" (p. 75).
Revisionists face a different challenge. If almost 1.3 million individuals were transited through those camps, where is the evidence for this? Where are these 1.3 million persons? Asking that question 75 years later is a little late, too. It cannot be expected that many of these individuals are still alive today. But what evidence is there that Treblinka, to stick with this camp, served as a layover station? And is there even one single Jew who was deported to Treblinka and showed up alive in “the East” or anywhere else, for that matter?
Die Alliierten bombardierten auch direkt KZ-Häftlinge, und heute wird uns gesagt, dies sei ein Beweis für einen deutschen geplanten Holocaust.
“Germans of the 21st century know what happened during the Nazi era because they learn about it in school, through television programs and various other sources. And this information did not arise from rumor or questionable hearsay. Nor was it a fabrication of the Jewish people, as suggested by some anti-Semitic factions. Proof of the Holocaust was based on the record of solid evidence produced at the [Nuremberg] trial.”
In the Czech Republic, denial of communist genocides and crimes against humanity are equally punishable under Article 261a, Penal Code. Poland’s Article 55 Law of the Institute of National Remembrance is similar to that of the Czech Republic and concerns National Socialist or communist crimes perpetrated between September 1, 1939 and December 31, 1989 against Poles or Polish citizens.
“A defense lawyer indicts. Star defender Rolf Bossi aims serious charges against the German judiciary. The unaccountability of judges, impunity and scandalous, wrong judgments render the rule of law in Germany a fiction, writes Bossi in his provocative book ‘Demigods in Black.’ Today, anyone could fall victim to a ruling that is utterly immune to effective oversight. ‘There is no requirement for verbatim transcripts for Penal Chambers of District Courts and even worse, for Jury Courts. There the judge can do whatever he likes. As a defense lawyer, I have no possibility of objection between the revelations of the investigation, the taking of evidence, and whatever he writes in his verdict. And I have no appeal.’ Thus, any judge can hide behind a mere authoritative-sounding verdict with no fear of correction. Today, even many judges agree that there is too little effective oversight in the German judicial system. ‘Bossi’s book comes at the right time. Whether intentionally or not, he has good timing, as the justice minister’s conference is in fact looking at a major structural reform.’”
The second fundamental issue addressed by the Declaration is headed ‘Prohibitions’. Here governments are instructed that they must abide by the Genocide Convention (a man-made statute, not a divine ordinance) and oppose ‘incitement to genocide’. Here again there is a dangerous and fatal vagueness. Observation shows that the accusation of ‘genocide’ is often raised in contexts where, while there may have been ethically unacceptable behaviour, it did not amount to genocide (the destruction of an entire people) either in fact or in intention.
There exist other practical means to fight the tyranny of the “Holocaust” myth, first amongst which is to announce to the whole world these “revisionist victories” which have thus far been kept hidden from it. I trust the revisionists present at this gathering will suggest other means and discuss them with us.
The large number of Jewish survivors at the end of World War II also makes impossible a program of genocide against European Jewry. Dr. Arthur Robert Butz states in regard to the large number of Jewish survivors: “The simplest valid reason for being skeptical about the extermination claim is also the simplest conceivable reason; at the end of the war they were still there.”[30] Norman Finkelstein, the author of The Holocaust Industry, quotes his mother as asking:[31]
"The so-called ´Station Z´, called so by the Nazis, was the annihilation site of the Concentration Camp with a neck-shot facility, gas chamber and crematorium. In Fall 1941 at least 12,000 Soviet POWs were shot here.”
These are the kind of responses you usually hear from people who encounter revisionism and realize that the story they’ve heard is not as bulletproof as they thought. As they do not want to admit it, they have to resort to these desperate, but logical questions. So, let’s see. Can we find evidence that Jews were transited through these supposed extermination camps? As a matter of fact, we can. And not in some secret vault or anything, but in the database of the USHMM itself! And by searching through the survivor testimonies, we actually find quite a few from one of the most-infamous death camps of all, Treblinka.
The Justice Department’s Office of Special Investigations (OSI) revived his case in 1999 by bringing a new legal complaint against the Ukrainian born retiree. They maintained Demjanjuk was a guard in other Nazi concentration camps and he lied about his wartime activities. After losing a long legal battle to stay in the US, John Demjanjuk was deported to Germany on May 12, 2009 to stand trial for alleged war crimes. German prosecutors formally charged him in July with helping to murder 27,900 Jews at the Sobibor camp.
The number of 6 million Jews who died in the “Holocaust” is frequently mentioned in Black’s book. However, the figure of 6 million Jewish deaths had been used and predicted long before the end of World War II. An ancient Jewish prophecy had promised the Jews their return to the Promised Land after a loss of 6 million of their people.[11] According to the book Breaking the Spell by Nicholas Kollerstrom, publications and speakers had referred to the death or persecution of 6 million Jews on at least 166 occasions from 1900 until the end of 1945.[12]
There are many other deficiencies to the Auschwitz story, which we can only mention here in passing:
In practice, Auschwitz was to function as a transit camp for the Jews deported within the framework of the Ostwanderung (deportation to the East): the able-bodied ones stayed at the camp, the non-able bodied, including children, continued their trip to the East.
In short, the "evidence" that "establishes" the existence of an alleged Nazi plan to exterminate the Jews is simply the guesswork of Holocaust historians. Contrary to what Bishop Farrell said, there is no meticulous documentation kept by the Nazis that proves the orthodox Holocaust story is a historical fact.
“As to whether the British disbelieved the [gas-chambers] story, the only evidence to which Irving was able to point was the note made by Cavendish-Bentinck that there was no evidence to support the claim. That appears to me to be a far cry from disbelieving the story.”
Perceived within this context, any denial or critical questioning of the homicidal gas chambers is perceived as synonymous with “Holocaust denial.” Concomitantly, any questioning of the overall figure of six million Jewish deaths is likewise perceived as a form of denial constituting a challenge to the veracity of the survivors and a brazen insult to the memory of the dead.
Every morgue needs a ventilation system to remove putrid gases developing when corpses decompose. Hence, the basement morgues of the Auschwitz Crematoria II & III had ventilation systems. In 1989, French historian J.-C. Pressac posited that the capacity of these morgues’ ventilation systems was increased in early 1942, and that this change allowed the use of these basement rooms for homicidal purposes. Based on wartime documents and modern expert literature, this paper determines and analyzes the ventilations systems’ features in minute detail, and how it changed during the years 1941-1943. The systems’ features lead to conclusions as to whether these rooms could have been used for homicidal purposes.
One may compare the above description with the information on the size and capacities of the alleged gas chambers left by Jankel Wiernik:
However, Kahn fails to supply the evidence in support of the suggestion that revisionists are willfully libeling anyone. Moreover, the criterion obviously does not apply to revisionist historians and application of the law would appear to be one-sided, as revisionists are libeled, smeared and lumped in the same group as “anti-Semites” or “hate mongers,” and no one protests in their defense. Thus, it may be argued that revisionists are denied equal standing under the law.
Confucius inveighs us to examine that word “criminal.” It may be that Reynouard’s videos did break a current law in one or more countries, but we are entitled to ask whether such a law was just. Not all laws are just. If, then, the law can be shown to be unjust, then the justification for the removal fails (ethically, if not legally). It is highly likely that investigation would show that the law is unjust, that it involves an unwarranted interference with free speech, and that it was put in place as a result of influence from those actively promoting the current view of “the Holocaust.”
Phase Two was the actual removal process, on trains heading east. Chelmno, Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka were strictly transit camps, designed to serve as transfer points in the systematic removal of the Jews from the Reich and deployment of them for the war effort. Over time, these camps accumulated several thousand dead bodies; together the four camps dealt with perhaps 150,000 dead Jews, who perished from a variety of causes—but none from gassing, on the revisionist view. Majdanek and Auschwitz were both transit and labor camps. The former suffered nearly 30,000 deaths and the latter perhaps 140,000—in each case, most due to typhus and other diseases.
Contemptuously and sarcastically, Stern noted that the Israeli court had ‘accepted the judgement of Professor Scheffler, a historian, who, without training in forensic science, believed the card to be authentic, adding that “anyone who would like to falsify such a [card] would have to be an absolute expert.”’
The Allies have also been declared guilty of not doing more to prevent the so-called Holocaust. Jewish historian Deborah Lipstadt writes:[19]
The genocidal underbelly of Nazism, most of which is now called the Holocaust, was outlined before the IMT in three main ways. Firstly, the Euthanasia programme (otherwise known as T4)[3], secondly, the camp system, accompanied by its murder weapons; gas chambers and vans and thirdly through the Einsatzgruppen, the teams of SS who followed behind the regular army on Barbarossa, wiping out civilians as they went.
But they chose photographs which show one door and used the singular “the” and mix it with images of the shower room. You can see the disinfestation chambers had warnings not to enter and marks designating when clothing fumigations started and when it was safe to open the doors again.
To the credit of the New York Times, they did point out how the Holocaust ideology, inclusive of the falsehood that four million people were murdered at Auschwitz, granted an air of legitimacy to the political landscape in Poland in 1979: "[P]oland’s suffering at the hands of Nazi Germany is still viewed as a source of unity, and the country’s liberation by the Red Army is regarded as the imprint of the legitimacy of the country’s Marxist leadership."[72]
However, as discussed in this article, the eyewitness testimony of the Treblinka gas chambers is not credible. Such testimony cannot be used to prove that Germany mass murdered Jews at Treblinka. Germar Rudolf writes:
Thinking that the gas chamber was waiting for him, he hesitated. But:
"On August 1, 1994, the Polish nation commemorated the 50th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising, in which 200,000 Poles were killed by German Nazis, and 500,000 more were transported to concentration camps.
On the other side of the coin, Bermant rather arbitrarily accuses revisionists of approaching the subject of the “Holocaust” with “preconceived views, selecting evidence to support their case and suppressing evidence which might contradict it.” Bermant claims to have arrived at this general conclusion based upon his discussions with a few (unidentified) revisionists he had personally met with and later assessed as “confirmed anti-Semites.”[12]
As far as I know, no one has done any thorough, systematic research trying to locate more individual cases of Jews transited through Treblinka, Sobibór or Bełżec to other places using the data available in published sources, victim and witness databases, etc. No one has even considered the question, let alone pursued it. Orthodox researchers are unlikely to undertake such research, as asking the question is a heresy worth the professional death penalty. Revisionists, on the other hand, have so far lacked the human, monetary, logistical and temporal resources to undertake such research on the grand scale it would require. So in this case as well, the evidence keeps deteriorating, as memories fade, documents decay and survivors die.
Much of the proof offered today by historians of the genocide of European Jewry is the “confessions” extracted by torture at the war crime trials. Among the most celebrated cases, Rudolph Höss, Julius Streicher, Oswald Pohl, Fritz Sauckel, Franz Ziereis and Josef Kramer were all subject to torture. Obviously, no “confession” obtained under torture would constitute credible evidence in a legitimate court of law.
Q. Did you give any instruction in the use of your gas to any personnel inside Sachsenhausen?
A. No. They were 10 cubic metres chambers, which were placed four in a row.
[3] Cross-examination is when the defense attorney questions the prosecution’s witness(es), in this case Mr. Schade, during a trial. Cross-examination allows the defense to present evidence via witnesses of their choosing.
When the victim of an attack lashes out against an amorphous attacker, it strikes whomever and whatever it can reach in its vengeful thrashings. When the victim is the United States, it can reach any target it chooses, though the choice must be mediated by suspicions, affections, assumptions, (anticipated) consequences, (allegable) evidence, and … pivotal suasions insinuated by interested third parties, who might for any of various reasons favor particular targets.
Winston Churchill played an important role in the history of the twentieth century. For this reason alone, it is important that revisionists re-examine the beliefs and historical forces that motivated this lionized British icon. By improving our understanding of Churchill’s views of and his relationship with the Holocaust and the powerful Jewish groups that played a decisive role in his career, we gain a more accurate view of the past and can use these lessons to hopefully make a more peaceful future for all.
I have yet to read one self-help guru who disputes the Holocaust story. Whenever self-help gurus repeat the official Holocaust narrative, I question their wisdom and let other people be inspired by their teachings.
Bischoff's letter to the DAW (Deutsche Ausrüstungswerke) offices dated 31 March 1943 makes reference to an order dated 6 March concerning "a gas-tight door" (Gastür)[149] 100/192 for Leichenkeller1 of Crematorium III, BW 30a",which had to be "built exactly according to the type and dimensions of the cellar door (Kellertür) of Crematorium II in front, with a spy-hole sealed with double 8 mm glass with rubber seal and mounting (mit Guckloch aus doppelten 8 - mm - Glas mit Gummidichtung und Beschlag)"[150]. With regards to the door of Crematorium II, in his deposition dated 24 May 1945, before examining magistrate J. Sehn, H. Tauber, who had seen this door in the Bauhof[151], declared that the door of the supposed gas chamber had a little window "protected on the inside by a metallic grill in the form of a half-moon", but because the latter was regularly damaged by the victims, "the spyhole was hidden by a board or a metal sheet"[152].
This might sound harsh. The fact is, however, that precisely because of this logic, no sort of verbatim transcript is taken in German courtrooms. This is even the case where the content of the introduction of evidence is at least recorded in summary, such as during criminal trials before County Courts, as prescribed by Section 273, Clause 2 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure. The criminal court judge therein named and the court with lay judges are institutions of the County Court.
As shown before, the Yad Vashem database of Holocaust victims contains many double entries as well as entries of survivors. This paper shows that entire sets of victims were entered multiple times, in the present case the 52,000 Jews deported from Berlin. The data contained in the database also reveals that many Jews deported through the infamous Treblinka camp, which is said to have been a wholesale extermination camp with almost no survivors, are reported to have died "downstream" (further east). Hence, for them Treblinka merely served as a transit camp.
The first transports of Hungarian Jews arrived at Auschwitz on 17 May 1944[46].
Weizsäcker was convicted of waging aggressive war for aiding in the invasion and occupation of Czechoslovakia in March 1939. He was also convicted of complicity in deporting Jews to alleged German extermination camps such as Auschwitz. Weizsäcker was sentenced to seven years in prison.[20]
The consequences of the Holocaust are presented by MacDonogh with a few rather revealing snippets. He repeatedly cites the amazing reappearance of improbably large numbers of Jews as Nazi power collapsed, they emerging both from the opened camps as well as from all over Germany itself – this being rather strange in view of the received history of a Nazi system efficiently exterminating them all. Many of these Jews were almost immediately re-established into positions of power and influence along with their co-religionists who had been resident in Britain and America during the war. Unfortunately the author jumbles some fiction with fact, for example when citing human lampshades as a reality at Buchenwald, or stating that the German military men mass-murdered at Dachau after the Allied takeover in 1945 were SS guards (actually they were ordinary military who had nothing to do with the camp administration), or as he mentions the former Auschwitz commandant Rudolf Höss's testimonies as reliable (when in fact they were often false and resultant to beatings and torture).
Near the conclusion of his magnum opus, The Destruction of the European Jews, esteemed Holocaust historiographer Raul Hilberg interprets the administrative system of Nazi genocide in terms that tempt metaphysical despair, arguing that the “conveyer belt” by which human exterminations were carried out arose out of a kind of brute teleology, the culmination of which took “millennia in the development of Western Culture.” Hilberg assures readers that “the Jewish crowds which surged into the gas chambers were incapable of fighting back.” Conditioned as they were by two thousand years of fabled history, “they had deliberately unlearned the art of revolt.” Thus they trembled in fateful obedience before the whip-wielding executioners that live on – and to some degree originated – in the minds of fanciful Holocaust memoirists. While Hilberg’s editorial reflections may be read to depict a uniquely horrific crisis of modernism, it is difficult to escape the quasi-mythic fundament upon which his dire pronouncement is situated. The Holocaust story simply cannot be dislodged from its theodicical moorings. It resonates as a Job-like tale of divinely ordained suffering, just as an audience demanded. Memoirists are wise to the form, while otherwise careful scholars are too often rendered stupid by the mythic penumbra. This is how lines are blurred.
Bollinger’s comments imply that “dangerous propaganda,” in the form of “Holocaust heresy,” ought to be suppressed and President Ahmadinejad receive public censure for upholding the democratic principle whereby all people should be allowed an opportunity to freely express their opinions without fear of retribution by the government.
An important article published in the Toronto Sun newspaper in Canada on 21st May 2011 was ‘No satisfaction in Demjanjuk case’ by Peter Worthington. He reminded readers of the passions aroused by the Demjanjuk case in Israel, when a defence lawyer, Dov Eitan, a very distinguished Israeli jurist, was found dead after a fall from a fifteen-storey building. Passed off as suicide, it may well have been a murder, like the similar death of James Forrestal, opponent of the creation of the state of Israel, in the crucial weeks before the UN established the new state. Worthington reminded readers of the acid thrown by a Holocaust survivor in the eyes of Yoram Sheftel at Eitan’s funeral.
The influence of the Holocaust doctrine on post World War II thought and politics is one of the most spectacular examples in history of how a fallacious ideology for which there is no credible evidence can come to fashion the thinking of a whole society and dominate the outlook of an age. Lipstadt’s book gives the reader a glimpse how this all was accomplished.
If they had actually sought to kill masses of Jews, the Germans clearly had many options at their disposal. Shooting would have been perhaps the last method chosen; it is a tedious, slow, and uncertain process to take large numbers of people, line them up individually or in groups, and execute them. There were clearly better alternatives. For example, the Ruhr Valley had many abandoned coal mines, most with ready access to rail lines. The Nazis simply had to ship trainloads of Jews there, toss them down the empty shafts, and collapse the mines. Or they could have drowned them; it would have been a simple matter to pack people into crude shipping containers and dump them into the sea. That would have accomplished the evil deed and eliminated the evidence all at once.
The maximum occupancy of the Auschwitz Camp was 140,000 detainees.
Germar Rudolf gave the Kraków researchers irrefutable proof that Prussian Blue is formed in walls repeatedly exposed to hydrogen-cyanide gas, citing a case document in expert literature.[15] The authors of the Kraków report refused to change their report nor admit they made a mistake. Rudolf writes: “The only ‘scientific’ attempt to refute Frederick A. Leuchter’s most-intriguing thesis turns out to be one of the biggest scientific frauds of the 20th century. How desperate must they be—those who try to defend the established version of the Holocaust, i.e., the alleged systematic extermination of Jews in homicidal ‘gas chambers,’ that they resort to such obviously fraudulent methods?”[16]
The official history of the camp calls Blatt’s claims into serious question. The late Holocaust historian Gerald Reitlinger explains: “Only sixteen women and three men returned after the war to Holland from Sobibor, where the chance of avoiding immediate death in the gas chamber was not one in four, but less than one in forty. From most trains about 40-80 young men were picked for the services of the death camp, but they lasted only a few weeks.”[90]
Stoppen Sie das Video, falls sie es lesen möchten. Es ist nichts Ungewöhnliches an dieser Erklärung, außer vielleicht die Tatsache, dass Juden darin nicht erwähnt werden. Das löste einige giftige Reaktionen aus, zum Beispiel von Jonathan Greenblatt, dem derzeitigen Chef der jüdischen Anti-Diffamierungsliga. Er schrieb am selben Tag auf Twitter, dass Trump Juden nicht einmal erwähnt habe,[4] was eine Flut ähnlicher Angriffe auf den US-Präsidenten auslöste, weil er die sechs Millionen jüdischen Opfer des Holocaust nicht ausdrücklich erwähnt hatte.[5] Das Weiße Haus konterte einen Tag später, dass nicht nur Juden im Holocaust gestorben seien, sondern dass auch fünf Millionen Nichtjuden getötet wurden,[6] die ebenso eine gleichartige Erinnerung verdienten, mit Bezug auf einen Artikel, der zwei Jahre zuvor in der Huffington Post erschienen war.[7] Das wiederum löste eine Reihe von Angriffen auf den Präsidenten und auf diesen Artikel von 2015 aus mit der Behauptung, diese Opferzahl von “fünf Millionen Nichtjuden” sei falsch und stark überhöht. Unter diesen Stimmen möchte ich hier die Times of Israel zitieren:[8]
In regard to the traditional Holocaust story, the Papacy has a documented track record of piously promoting a Holocaust falsehood. Herewith.
“We saw that in Birkenau there were four crematories, each equipped with four ovens. Each oven burned three bodies in three minutes. At such a rate Moloch gobbled up 144 victims every three minutes.” (p. 76)
We now give the reader one of Judge Matia’s most important conclusions in regard to his ruling against John Demjanjuk: “This is a case of documentary evidence, not eyewitness testimony. It is not at all unusual sixty years after an event that eyewitnesses are not available. Indeed, if they were, their testimony would be subjected to close scrutiny because of the effect of time and the ravages of age upon memories and eyewitness identifications. The defendant’s successful defense against the ‘Ivan the Terrible’ charges shows the unreliability of eye witness testimony so long after the event.”[123]
But Novick remains, however unintentionally, however unconsciously, a revisionist of one corner—dare I call it a small corner?—of the Holocaust. In that corner, and a very few others, it is permitted, even in Germany, to debate the Holocaust, and the debate, if Novick and his scrupulous research are to be credited, has yielded, as it happens, some deflation, some minimization, of National Socialist crimes against humanity, to all of which Novick evidently subscribes, not just openly, but even casually, as though it were, of course, every historian’s duty to do such diligence.
Thompson had sent out form letters to hundreds of eminent persons throughout the world soliciting professional opinions on the war crimes trials, to form “a better historical perspective.” Describing himself on his letterhead as a “journalist and public relations counsel,” and as a literary agent and news analyst, he referred to Dönitz as having been jailed for performing the duty that any military man would be sworn to uphold. Thompson pointed out that the Nuremberg Military Tribunal did not have any legal precedent or authorization, that it was not a genuine “military tribunal,” and that it was in violation of “Anglo-American constitutional principles.” Thompson cited Rear Admiral Daniel V. Gallery, who wrote in Twenty Million Tons under the Sea that the “war crimes trials” were “a libel on the military profession” and that the trial of Dönitz was “barefaced hypocrisy.” He referred to Admiral Nimitz,[127] who testified for the defense at the trial of Dönitz that unrestricted submarine warfare, for which Dönitz had been tried, had also been conducted by U.S. submarines in the Pacific. Thompson stated in the appeal that he had been collecting opinions for more than a year, and stated that “this collection of opinions will represent a milestone in the historical reappraisal of the dangerous precedent set at Nuremberg.” Thompson then provided a three-page list of hundreds of eminent persons who had already contributed their opinions.[128]
Dr. Green’s speculation is absurd. Why would the Germans lean materials that had been soaked with aqueous solutions of HCN against the outside walls of the delousing chambers? Dr. Green is desperate to find an alternative reason for the heavy blue staining on the outside walls of the delousing chambers.[16]
Far from prompting a crisis of conscience, the legal repression of French and German revisionists escalated when on October 23, 1996, French lawyer Eric Delacroix was convicted by the XVIIth Correctional Chamber of the Paris Tribunal under the Fabius-Gayssot law, which prohibits criticism of the Nuremberg trials. Thus, counsel for those accused of “Holocaust denial” were now themselves susceptible to prosecution and at risk of being disbarred for defending their clients too energetically. Under such circumstances, the client-attorney relationship is critically ruptured, and becomes a mere mockery of justice. Truth be told, these repressive laws are precisely designed to deprive individuals of their basic civil liberties. These deleterious laws constitute a negation of the fundamental right entitling every accused individual to retain the best possible legal defense available when facing the possibility of years of imprisonment.
On 31 January, Ron Kampeas, writing for the Jewish Telegraphic Agency, went beyond defining the Holocaust as an exclusively Jewish event. He declared that the figure of 5 million non-Jewish victims was “a number without any scholarly basis.” Kampeas cites Yehuda Bauer for the claim that Simon Wiesenthal invented the figure in the 1970s:
The Malmedy trial was probably closer to a fair judicial process than Ferencz’s aforementioned description. However, the Malmedy trial was not a fair and impartial hearing. The lack of documentary evidence, the use of mock trials and interrogation methods designed to produce false confessions, military judges with little or no legal training, and unreliable eyewitness testimony assured the conviction of all 73 German defendants in the Malmedy trial.[31]
We first note here that the number of Einsatzgruppen victims (= "organized murder" for USSR + the Baltic States) is no higher than 540,000, as compared to the 2,200,000 later alleged by German Holocaust historians Krausnick and Wilhelm.[18] By August 1943 at least 90% of the alleged Einsatzgruppen massacres had already taken place.
“Jews would be ‘utilized for work in the east’, gathered into large labour columns segregated by gender, and deployed for road construction. They would move ever further east as the roads extended. In the process, all but the fittest would expire ‘through natural reduction’ and the remnant would be subject to ‘special treatment’. In the concentration camps, Sonderbehandlung or ‘special treatment’ was already a euphemism for execution. He then spelled out why: history showed that the survivors of the road-building programme could become the germ cell of a ‘new Jewish revival’. So, although the evacuation was not intended to deliver Jews to their deaths immediately it would ultimately eventuate in the destruction of the Jewish people.” (p. 456)
Hanns flashed the photograph and told Rudolf that he believed him to be the Kommandant of Auschwitz. Again Rudolf denied the claim, pointing once more at his identity papers. Perhaps he would be able to wriggle out of this: after all, the British had let him slip through their fingers in the past.
Jansson’s article powerfully depicts the “football” nature of history in general, but in particular that portion of history that concerns itself with the experiences of the Jews of Europe during the time of territorial expansion that Germany undertook during its interval of National Socialism. And like the Karski football, the Holocaust football has been “all over the field” over its long and active life. Putting aside prewar adumbrations such as those cataloged in Don Heddesheimer’s 2005 The First Holocaust, the Note from the Republic of Poland cited above may have been the “kick-off” for the historical event that overshadows all others before or since, with the subsequent United Nations Declaration counting as the “extra point” (this analogy from American football).
The fact that the National Socialists bypassed more deadly gases, and then opted to use a diesel engine to kill with CO, is sufficient for a rational investigator to dismiss the entire gas van story. But there are other problems with it. For example, it is physically impossible to pump exhaust gas into a “hermetically sealed” cabin. Either the engine will stall, or the cabin will be blown apart. There would have to be some complex system of pressure valves to let out the oxygen as the CO came pouring in. But no one has ever described such a scheme. If we had an actual surviving gas van at our disposal, we could easily answer such questions; unfortunately, not one has remained. (More problems of ‘vanishing evidence.’)
This propaganda announced that 6,000,000 members of the Jewish Culture-Nation-State-Church-People-Race had been killed in European camps, as well as an indeterminate number of other people. The propaganda was on a world-wide scale, and was of a mendacity that was perhaps adapted to a uniformized mass, but was simply disgusting to discriminating Europeans. The propaganda was technically quite complete. “Photographs” were supplied in millions of copies. Thousands of the people who had been killed published accounts of their experiences in these camps. Hundreds of thousands more made fortunes in post-war black-markets. “Gas-chambers” that did not exist were photographed, and a “gasmobile” was invented to titillate the mechanically-minded.
Such an awareness is being awakened among the masses as to those others who incessantly seek after their minds and hearts, be those governments, religions, insurgents, thieves or a whole host of other seductors. If and as such awareness grows, and becomes more-discerning as to the deceptions undertaken and the rewards sought thereby, the taboos of the Holocaust face but a straitened future.
Heisenberg prevented Polish physicist Edwin Gora from being sent to German concentration camps while also enabling him to complete his Ph.D. thesis. Gora wrote after Heisenberg’s death:
At that time, Irving must have been aware that there were researchers who disputed the official version of the Jews' fate during World War Two. Arthur Butz’s The Hoax of the Twentieth Century had come out in 1976, a year before Hitler’s War. It seems unlikely that Irving was not aware of this book and its thesis. At any rate, Irving failed to draw the only logical conclusion from the total lack of documentary evidence for the “Holocaust,” and concluded instead that the extermination of the Jews had been ordered and organized by the Reichsführer SS Heinrich Himmler without Hitler’s knowing. In Hitler’s War, Irving wrote:
More recently, UNESCO in Paris organized a “Shoah by Bullets” exhibition between 26 January and 10 February 2015. Exhibitions also opened in Vilnius (Lithuania) on 1 October 2015 and, for the first time in Latin America, in Guatemala City on 5 October 2015.
As for the payment for the ovens, Rudolf Jährling, the civilian employee forming part of the Auschwitz Zentralbauleitung, unequivocally clarified something – apparently garbled in an earlier rendition – which had misled even Pressac himself. Jährling made two hand-written annotations, one dated 31 January, the other dated 21 February 1944, on the copy of the letter from the Bauinspektion Russland-Mitte dated 2 June 1943 received by the Zentralbauleitung, in which he explained that the SS had ordered 4 ovens with 8 muffles (each), costing a total of 55,200 RM; the Bauinspektion Russland-Mitte had already paid Topf 42,600 RM on account, followed by the addition – on 7 February 1944 – by the SS-Standortverwaltung of Auschwitz, of another part payment of 10,000 RM,[7] as a result of which Topf was still entitled to 2,600 RM.[8] The oven-and-a-half stored in the Topf warehouses were therefore, for all intents and purposes, the contractual property of the Reichsführer-SS.
[4] Rudolf, Germar, The Rudolf Report: Expert Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz, Washington, D.C., The Barnes Review, 2011, pp. 188-189.
Milgram’s initial goal of delineating the inherent bestiality of Germans was ultimately derailed, but the silver lining on that cloud far outshone any darkness cast by the failure of his long-forgotten thesis. How much better to show the world so graphically that we’re all Nazis! At the present juncture, critical studies of Milgram’s actual methods, along with evidence of portions of his findings that he suppressed or misrepresented, are casting into doubt his conclusions as to what we all (inextricably including those Nazis, I should hope) really are like.
If deportation is sometimes the “equivalent of a death sentence,” and many will “pay with their lives,” we are left wondering how, exactly, and in what numbers, they will die. I trust that there is a clear difference between (a) many dying from disease, exposure, lack of medical care, periodic shootings, etc, and (b) all dying in a complex and systematic gassing operation. There is no doubt that concentrating and deporting thousands or millions of people in wartime would lead to many deaths. But this is not genocide. The next entry is telling:
We now come to a description which, in light of recent controversy, should be of particular interest. For this is where Elie tells us how he got his prisoner’s tattoo. The scene unfolds as follows: one fine afternoon a line is formed in front of a table with some medical instruments. Three veteran prisoners with needles are assigned to engrave numbers on the arms of the new prisoners. With left sleeve rolled up, Elie tells us he gets his number: A-7713. And the number is important. When at dusk the work units return, greeted by a band playing military marches, roll call is taken. And the SS verifies the tens of thousands of prisoners not by their names but by their numbers. So Elie would have been required to have a number at Auschwitz. No number, no Auschwitz. A-7713, left arm. Of course any other legitimate number would have served the purpose, but this is the one he says he received. If no number or a false one, we must toss out the whole idea of his ever being at Auschwitz or the factual basis for what he says in Night. Why not believe him?
No such prospect appears regarding those accused of perpetrating the Holocaust, and no such movement as Free the West Memphis 3 featuring luminaries such as Johnny Depp, Patti Smith, and Henry Rollins, among others, exists, at least not “above ground.”
The passage quoted above must therefore be kept in mind in any consideration of Desbois's famous research work in the Ukraine as a sort of response to "negationism," a term invented by the defenders of traditional Holocaust lore to discredit revisionism. The only real negationism is that professed by those who, out of intolerance, deny other people's right to freedom of expression, denying, out of pseudo-religious obtuseness and bad faith, the very foundations of historiographical and scholarly methodology itself.
Garaudy, a former Communist, was subsequently found guilty of “denying crimes against humanity” for expressing scholarly doubts over the “Holocaust” extermination story and for “racist defamation” related to his candid exposé detailing Jewish influence and domination in the Western media.
“Only in the last years of the war was when the rumors got through about things like the concentration camp inmates being tortured and that they were dying so wretchedly. About the actual consistent gassing, we did not know. Then, when the Russian invasion came and the German army had to retreat, the concentration camp was evacuated. Then there came a great flood of concentration camp inmates in their striped clothes. It ran through Beuten toward Silesia. It was only then that the extent really became known.” (p. 223)
The heart of the Majdanek story, like all six death camps, lay with the gas chambers. The standard account, dating to 1944, holds that the camp had seven such chambers. They were unique in that they supposedly used both Zyklon-B (cyanide pellets) and carbon monoxide from pressurized cylinders.
which was not a very sensible question, since, as I have explained above, at Auschwitz-Birkenau there were at least eleven "Sonderkommandos".
Le Pen accused the French government of malicious prosecution and justified his statement by remarking “if you take a book of 2000 pages on this war, the concentration camps fill two pages and the gas chambers take up 10 to 12 lines. That’s what you call a detail.”[21]
This new line of German legal standards is breathtaking in its unfairness. It incorrectly assumes that some German concentration camps were used for the sole purpose of exterminating people when, in fact, none of them was. Moreover, this proposed German law finds a person guilty merely for being at a certain camp. People can be found guilty of a crime even when no evidence is presented that they committed a crime. The Simon Wiesenthal Center continued to help prosecute other elderly veteran German guards under this new line of German legal thinking after Demjanjuk’s conviction.[21]
Those who are in the habit of reading atrocity stories (like Hogo de Bergerac, a character in the novel Snow White, by Donald Barthelme, which was brought to my attention many years ago by Jeff Riggenbach) might be disappointed by Riggenbach's omission of any discussion of wartime atrocities, real or imagined, except for the atomizing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Those who are addicted to Holocaust revisionism will get no satisfaction for that craving here.
The German Jew Heinz Rosenberg, born in 1921, was deported from Hamburg to Minsk on 8 November 1941 (the first direct transport to that city).[158] His memoirs were published in 1985. A few days after Rosenberg’s arrival to Minsk, another transport with “about 1000 Jews from Düsseldorf” arrived.[159] This is perfect accordance with facts, since a transport bound for Minsk departed from Düsseldorf on 10 November. At the time, Rosenberg was told by SS members that “another 30 to 40 transports would follow”.[160] This reported statement fits well with the fact that another 32 direct transports reached Minsk: 4 more in November 1941 and another 28 in the period May – November 1942 (most of them from Vienna). Rosenberg writes that in the next few weeks following the Düsseldorf transport, more trains arrived, each carrying about 1000 people, so that in all 7,500 Jews arrived in the ghetto (which seems to imply a total of 7 transports). The documents show that the transports to Minsk in November numbered 6, and that they carried a total of 5,453 people. Thus Rosenberg somewhat overestimates the number of deportees, but within a reasonable margin of error. The origins of the transports following the first two from Hamburg and Düsseldorf are given by Rosenberg as “Berlin, Vienna, Prague and Bremen/Hamburg”.[161] The documents show (in chronological order): Frankfurt am Main, Berlin, Brünn and Hamburg. Here Rosenberg is in error, but it is not as grave an error as it might appear. Brünn (present Brno) was a city in the Protectorate and it is not out of the question that Rosenberg in his recollections mistook it to have arrived from Prague. The mention of Vienna and the lacking mention of Frankfurt are perhaps more serious, and points to a somewhat faulty memory. Rosenberg is correct, however, that the last of the November transports arrived from Hamburg. It is worth noting here that Karl Loewenstein, who arrived with the fourth transport (from Berlin), recalled in 1961 that the three following transports arrived, in chronological order, from “Brünn, Bremen and Vienna”.[162] Later in his recollection Loewenstein explicitly mentions the presence of Vienna Jews in Minsk in the winter of 1941-42 (and that part of the German ghetto had been named after these Jews)[163], while the documents show that the first direct transport from Vienna to Minsk departed on 6 May 1942. A hypothetical explanation for this would be that the transport from Vienna to Kaunas departing on 23 November 1941 was for some reason rerouted to Minsk, or that some Jews from the Kaunas transport were sent on to Minsk.[164] However, as far as the author of this article is aware, there exists no documentary evidence supporting this hypothesis.
The ruling discourse in America, and indeed the West, demands that the Holocaust story remain closed to authentic debate. The Holocaust happened. Revisionists say it didn't. For that reason all worthy persons and particularly intellectuals—who are all worthy persons by definition—favor the suppression and even censorship of revisionist theory. Meanwhile, because over the last half century the story has been revised so much, it becomes increasingly difficult to say exactly what the Holocaust was. That's where I saw my role. I fell into it like a blind man falling down a well. All I could see was the taboo that protected the story from real examination. How could anyone put his finger on what the thing itself had been if it was taboo to talk about it freely—really freely? I would be the one then, the blind man said, to help start the discussion going.
As far back as 2003 Browning concluded: “Clearly, anyone who wants to dismiss Eichmann’s testimonies on the grounds of their demonstrated unreliability and shameless self-serving lies can easily do so, and many of my colleagues have done precisely this.”[30] If historians in Browning and Lipstadt’s Holocaust camp have dismissed Eichmann’s testimonies because of their gross untrustworthiness, then Holocaust revisionists should do likewise—refuse to accept them as evidence for the “Nazi gas chambers” and an alleged Hitler plan to exterminate Europe’s Jews.
Professor Faurisson recently appeared in court in Paris for having participated at the Tehran Holocaust conference. Then French President Jacques Chirac, upon hearing that the gathering was taking place, made an unprecedented request to the justice system to prosecute the négationniste Faurisson. The case finally came up on June 25, 2015, only to be adjourned to June of next year. The presiding (and anonymous) female judge had recently broken with established practice by silencing Faurission during a hearing held the previous week, also to try him under the anti-revisionism law, this time for a 93-minute online video (please see see the English-subtitled version at  https://archive.org/details/AMan-RobertFaurissonTalksWithPaulEricBlanrue). She refused outright to let him explain why he'd said what he'd said in the recording: "I'm not interested in négationnisme." This constitutes another new twist in state repression of thought, for in his past trials he had always been allowed to offer an in-depth justification of his writings and public declarations. What follows is the paper that he presented in Tehran on December 11, 2006.— Ed.
Danuta Czech’s reconstruction, as regards its numerical aspects, is documentarily based on unimpeachable facts, taken from the series of daily reports referred to as “Arbeitseinsatz” (labor deployment) in the men’s camp of Auschwitz II (Birkenau).
First, there is no “larger body of evidence for the Holocaust.” Revisionists simply cover more and more topics in greater detail, while orthodox historians keep repeating the same things again and again. Second, the term “negationist” is clear misinformation. A real negationist stance is usually expressed in the form “I don’t believe this”. You can’t fill book after book with such a stance. Revisionism is about setting the record straight. What happened and what did not. Zyklon was for killing lice, not prisoners. Furnaces were for cremation, not erasing the traces. Or put more simply: Santa Claus does not bring the presents. The parents do. Third, Terry’s hallucinations on “‘Revisionist’ conspiracy claims about Allied and Soviet manipulation” are misleading. Revisionists researchers don’t claim that there was such a conspiracy. The development of the orthodox Holocaust narrative was a highly complex process which cannot be explained by any kind of conspiracy.
Two people have been jailed in the UK for “denying the Holocaust,” after distributing a comic book called Tales of the Holohoax. It seems to have been the pushy way they distributed this sensitive material rather than the content itself which landed them in jail. They posted it to the local synagogue in Leeds. This comic (with some rather fine text by Michael Hoffman) is in the great tradition of British satire, from William Hogarth to Private Eye.
As Sobran inquired further into Israeli atrocities and the historical/moral/biblical claims made by Israel's apologists to somehow expiate these atrocities, his attention was drawn to the tortured history of the "Holocaust" of 1933-1945. He eventually found sympathy with, and from, the Institute for Historical Review and its director, Historian Mark Weber. A writer (and eloquent speaker, as Sobran was) must have an audience. Seldom is a writer's audience composed entirely of people who are as glittering, glamorous, wealthy, stylish, or admired as one might possibly wish. And when a purveyor of thoughts and ideas such as Sobran finds audiences that welcome him, the purveyor naturally and instinctively inflects his milieux in the direction of their interests. Even Elie Wiesel began to write in French when the Yiddish vein he had been mining petered out.
The Solicitor-General told the Commons, in reply to a question by Norman Baker, that "There may be sufficient evidence to charge Mr. Allen with three offences: one alleging forgery, one alleging the use of forged documents and one alleging criminal damage. Counsel’s advice was based upon the prosecution being able to prove a number of facts." We never hear a word of this “proof” and I doubt whether it exists. (Hansard, 12th December, www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200708/cmhansrd/cm071212/text/71212w0003.htm)
If indeed, as USHMM Director Sara Bloomfield recently commented, the Holocaust is still a "relatively new field of academic study"—now 65 years after the fact—then it is presumably appropriate to find new 'milestone' works still being produced. Earlier writings were dominated by the likes of Reitlinger, Hilberg, Dawidowicz, Gutman, and Arad. More recently we've seen people like Browning and Kershaw rise to the top. But now we have a new standard-bearer, and his name is Peter Longerich. His new book, Holocaust, is "now generally recognized by historians as the standard account of this horrific chapter in human history"—or so says his prestigious publisher, Oxford University Press. As such, it is worthy of careful analysis and review, by traditionalists and revisionists alike.
Lipstadt explains that her definition of the Holocaust includes only Jews, because Jews and only Jews, she says, were killed categorically and without provocation:
Yet another “special commission,” to investigate the Sachsenhausen camp, was created in Moscow. It consisted of three members of the ESC office (General D. I. Kudryavzev, P. V. Semjonov and P. T. Kusmin), two representatives of the public prosecutor’s office (P. I. Tarasov-Rodyonov and P. V. Baranov) and a representative of the NKVD (A. I. Simenkov). Kudryavzev had already acquired considerable experience at Auschwitz, where he had headed the local ESC commission; the well-known document USSR-08 was probably finished at the time the Sachsenhausen commission was set up. Kudryavzev’s colleagues Semyonov and Kusmin were ordered to write an equivalent report about Sachsenhausen. We may safely assume that it was planned to present this report at Nuremberg together with the ones about Majdanek and Auschwitz, but for reasons which will become clear later this was not the case[9]; the document was never published or used as incriminating evidence against the “German Fascists”. At the State Archives of the Russian Federation (GARF) the author has found several drafts of the planned report, plus some letters concerning the same subject. An analysis of these documents provides us with a unique insight into the way such reports originated; it shows how the Soviet picture of the history of the camp came about and how the commission handled the results of its own “investigation”.
The Gas Vans is Volume 26 in the Holocaust Handbook Series. It is arranged like many other volumes in the series — in a very detailed format that appears exhaustive and can be quite exhausting to the reader. Alvarez by the way notes that the current volume is far from complete as additional materials are held by the Zentralstelle in Germany and are inaccessible due to German censorship laws.
“Gas Chamber. Gas tight doors. Wooden shed believed to contain pump or compressor.”
“There is a categorical difference between debating these types of [mainstream] questions [about the Holocaust] and debating the very fact of the Holocaust.” – unquote (p. xii)
Tesch and Weinbacher were found guilty and sentenced to death,[127] while Drosihn’s groveling earned him an acquittal. On March 19, Tesch submitted a petition against the judgment, as did Weinbacher the next day. Both men referred to the written appeals of their lawyers.[128] Tesch’s lawyer Dr. Zippel wrote a lengthy appeal which addressed a number of issues which had looked bad for Tesch during the trial. Chief among these was the issue of large gas chambers. Tesch had made various denials concerning his ignorance of large size gas chambers. At the trial, the prosecution sought to destroy his credibility by showing that these were lies. Drosihn wrote a statement on appeal concerning these large gassing facilities:
The plea did not fall upon deaf ears, yet observers in the revisionist camp were quick to perceive the fact that Dauebler-Gmelin’s overall assessment had deliberately conflated legitimate, scholarly inquiry with respect to homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Treblinka, Maidanek, Sobibor and Belzec with “Holocaust denial,” as if the latter is solely predicated upon unquestioning acceptance of the former, completely overlooking the fact that, while the two subjects are relative and relevant, the gas chambers are not by any means exclusively synonymous with the “Holocaust” per se, but serve to underscore the extent and scope of the tragedy. By way of illustration, mainstream historians generally view the gas chambers as the culmination of years of anti-Jewish persecution, rather than one singular defining episode, which, if it had never occurred, would have precluded use of the term “Holocaust” in reference to the Nazi persecution of the Jews. Moreover, it is academically debatable whether these same historians would have recast any reference to the Nazis’ policies towards the Jews in any terms other than a ‘Holocaust’ even if the gas chambers had never existed.
We Germans, in spite of the repeated assurances to the contrary of our puppet politicians, are politically and intellectually no longer a sovereign nation since our defeat in the Second World War. Our political subservience, which is apparent in the fact of the breaking up of the Reich and the incorporation of the individual pieces into the extant power blocks of the East and of the West, has had as its consequence a corresponding subservience. Escape from this intellectual subservience is prevented primarily by the guilt complex inculcated in most Germans through the “reeducation” instituted in 1945. This guilt complex is based primarily on the Holocaust Legend. Therefore for we Germans the struggle against what I have called the “Auschwitz Myth” is so frightfully important.[15]
The Dachau concentration camp was used as a center for medical experimentation on humans involving high altitudes, freezing and other experiments. This has been documented at the so-called Doctors’ Trial at Nuremberg, which opened on December 9, 1946, and ended on July 19, 1947.[6] Also, Dr. Charles P. Larson, a leading American forensic pathologist, was at Dachau and conducted autopsies, interviews and a review of the remaining medical records to determine the extent of the medical experimentation at the camp.[7]
The language of hate directed against those who question even the smallest of details regarding the Holocaust should be a warning to all—and it is. In Orwell’s prophetic 1984, the totalitarian government of Big Brother broadcast “2-Minute Hates” in which the general masses are incited to indulge in paroxysms of hatred of its purported enemies. Orwell describes the effect,
Two correspondents to The Australian brought the question of Holocaust denial and the Act into a sensible context. James Miller commented on an article by Mark Leibler: “If… Leibler’s true agenda is to retain so much of 18C as is required to block Holocaust denial, surely the proper way forward is for an open debate about the wisdom of a specific law to shut down such views.”[118] And Sholto Douglas disagreed with a prior suggestion that Holocaust denial should be outlawed in order to win Jewish support for free speech in other contexts of race. He pointed out that such legislation would not only be “illiberal”, but that “other groups will ask why Jews alone should have their sensitivities protected.”[119]
Heschel ignores the fact that her traditional Holocaust story is not only a feeble ideology that cannot be substantiated with physical/forensic evidence, but also, much of it can be shown to be false. Consider this. In December 2009, one of the widely recognized authorities on the Auschwitz concentration camp, Robert Jan van Pelt, admitted that: "Ninety-nine per cent of what we know [about the Auschwitz extermination story] we do not actually have the physical evidence to prove…" Professor van Pelt added this most telling statement: "We in the future—remembering the Holocaust—will operate in the same way that we remember most things from the past. We will know about it from literature and eyewitness testimony…"[19]
Of the Dachau crematorium called “Barrack X,” one can read the following on the Web site of the US Holocaust Memorial Museum: “There is no credible evidence that the gas chamber in Barrack X was used to murder human beings.”[1] A strange situation indeed, given that the facility, built in late 1942 and completed by May 1943,[2] allegedly contained a dedicated homicidal gas chamber of substantial size—about 39 square meters (425 square feet), sufficient to gas nearly 400 people at a time, on the traditional view. Why would the Germans build such a dedicated facility, and then never use it?—not a single mass gassing, in nearly two years?[3] Is there perhaps another story here? And what can we learn from examining the facility today?
Remark: This sudden and unexplained concession is significant. At the Nuremberg trial the only homicidal gas chamber that the accusation ventured to show in a film had been that of Dachau, and the testimonies telling of alleged homicidal gassings in the three above-mentioned camps had been numerous. M. Broszat thus implicitly acknowledged that those testimonies were false. He did not tell us in what respect they were false. Nor did he tell us in what respect other such testimonies relating, for example, to Auschwitz, Majdanek, Treblinka, Sobibor or Belzec should, for their part, go on being deemed reliable. In the 1980s, at Dachau, a sign indicated in five languages that the “gas chamber disguised as showers”, visited by the tourists, was “never used” as such. The revisionists had then asked in what respect the room could be termed a homicidal “gas chamber”, whereupon the Dachau Museum authorities took down the sign and replaced it with another on which, in German and English, can now be read: “Gas chamber. This was the center of potential mass murder. The room was disguised as ‘showers’ and equipped with fake shower spouts to mislead the victims and prevent them from refusing to enter the room. During a period of 20 minutes up to 150 people at a time could be suffocated to death through prussic acid poison gas (Zyklon B).” One will note the words “potential” and “could”, the choice of which attests to a fine bit of trickery: the information spawns in visitors’ minds the idea that the said “gas chamber” was effectively used for killing but, at the same time, it enables the museum to retort to revisionists: “We haven’t expressly said that this gas chamber was used for killing; we’ve merely said that it could be or could have been, at the time, used to kill a certain number of people”\. To conclude, in 1960 M. Broszat, without any explanation, decreed in a simple letter that no one had been gassed at Dachau; thenceforth, the Dachau Museum authorities, quite embarrassed, have tried, by means of assorted deceitful ploys varying over time, to fool their visitors into believing that, in this room that looks like showers (and for good reason, since that is what it was), people had well and truly been gassed.
[10] Guttenplan, D. D., The Holocaust on Trial, New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 2001, p. 85.
Germany soon passed laws after the publication of Stäglich’s book making it a felony to dispute any aspect of the Holocaust story. The obvious question is: What kind of historical truth needs criminal sanctions to protect it? The official Holocaust story would not need criminal sanctions to protect it if it was historically accurate. The goal is to make Germans feel guilty about a genocide they never committed, while making a criminal of anyone who contests the fraudulent Holocaust story.
"Then one day I realized that a false picture of the German camps had been created and that the problem of the concentration camps was a universal one, not just one that could be disposed of by placing it on the doorstep of the National Socialists. The deportees, many of whom were Communists, had been largely responsible for leading international political thinking to such an erroneous conclusion. I suddenly felt that by remaining silent I was an accomplice to a dangerous influence."[6]
As one can imagine, questions eventually arose regarding the veracity of these gas chamber reports.[5] The first challenges appeared in 1950, with Paul Rassinier’s book Le mensonge d’Ulysse, and Maurice Bardèche’s Nuremberg, both in French. In 1954, the German Ludwig Paulin published an article, “The lie of the 238,000: What happened in camp Dachau?,” in which he disputed the existence of a gas chamber.[6] Two months later, another article appeared in the same journal, pseudonymously written by American military attorney Stephen Pinter. Pinter claimed to have visited all the western camps, including Dachau, without finding any credible evidence for homicidal gas chambers.[7]
The sad experience of the FMD epidemic has taught us that the most efficient pyre is long and rather narrow; it should not be made wider than some 3 meters. Wider pyres tend to collapse in the middle for lack of air and combustion will be incomplete; not much can be done about that when it occurs because one cannot get close enough to stoke the center. It is also safe to assume that the SS at Auschwitz, having had to burn at least some 50,000 to 100,000 corpses in earlier years, would have realized what was necessary to burn corpses on a pyre in the most efficient way.
The history of this chute is quite interesting: for a new crematorium, the SS design office at Auschwitz had proposed, in late October, 1941, a layout with a flight of stairs leading from an open porch to two morgues (“length as needed”) on the floor below, but without a chute. A month later, more detailed drawings were executed in Berlin, the entrance area was changed to a design more in keeping with the rest of the building, the access to the lower floor was moved to the other side, made wider, and a chute was added. Also, the location of the whole building, still within the main camp, seems to have been determined at that point, because these new drawings show a specific orientation. In February, 1942, this location appears on a layout plan for the main camp, shown on Plate 7 of the book by Dwork and van Pelt (Auschwitz, 1270 …).
"What I'm suggesting is you're very mistaken if you think people are interested in reading about your inner life as a Holocaust revisionist. Nobody wants to read about you, Bradley. Are you listening to me? Your personal life is a bore. People are interested in their own lives. The only interesting thing you've ever done is revisionism and you don't want to write about that. You want to write about your feelings. Can't you understand how childish that is? I have that first little book you published, what's it called? It's unreadable. Do you understand what I'm saying? It's a miracle you've been able to accomplish anything at all for revisionism."
Carlo Mattogno has prepared a long list of children and twins at Auschwitz who survived the camp.[20] In addition to the fact that almost all of the twins at Auschwitz survived the camp, Mattogno’s research provides the following proofs that Mengele did not commit his alleged crimes against twins at Auschwitz:
As of today, on the strictly historical and scientific plane, the assessment is disastrous for the proponents of the official truth. There remains not one stone upon another of the edifice built by the 1945-1946 Nuremberg Tribunal, the Jerusalem Tribunal of 1961, and by Léon Poliakov, Gerald Reitlinger, Raul Hilberg and a crowd mainly of Jewish authors. To confine ourselves to the three essential elements of the charge brought against Adolf Hitler and the Third Reich, no one, in the sixty-five years and more since the war, has been able to find a single order to kill the Jews, or a single proof that there existed a single homicidal gas chamber or gas van, or a single proof that six million European Jews were murdered or had simply died, of whatever cause, during the Second World War. When the American revisionist Bradley Smith, head of the Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust (CODOH), asks his country’s academics to provide him, with supporting evidence, the name of one person who died in a gas chamber at Auschwitz, he is answered with insults or silence. Why?
Moreover, some of the ancient testimony is favourable to Zentai. His military commander, Mader, on one occasion blamed a fellow soldier, not him. ‘In a translated transcript of Mader’s interrogation at Budapest’s military political office on 15 November 1945, Mader points the finger of blame for Balazs’s [murder] at only one person, Nagy.’ This transcript was discovered in a Hungarian government archive by Zentai’s son, Ernie Steiner.[72]   As a correspondent in an online discussion noted, ‘the evidence is very old and was taken from suspicious witnesses who may have been trying to displace their guilt on the absent Zentai.’[73] And Zentai’s lawyer, Denis Barich, stated on 22 October 2009 that witness statements against him by two of his former army colleagues who were convicted over Balazs’s death… were probably obtained under coercion and were tainted. ‘Maybe these soldiers were tortured and they were fearing for their own lives, maybe they were pointing the finger at somebody else.’[74] Zentai’s son also raised the possibility that Zentai may have been implicated in those testimonies ‘as payback for having given evidence against a superior officer who had deserted.’ He may have been a scapegoat.[75]
The present paper was inspired by an accidental discovery the author made in the Russian State Archives (GARF) where he stumbled over the drafts of an ESC report about Sachsenhausen concentration camp. These drafts date from 1945, but no report was ever published. Comparisons among the different versions enables us to understand the genesis of this type of report.
In view of the complete lack of any documentary evidence of homicidal gassings at Majdanek, the representatives of the official historiography must needs make use of witness statements – but this leads directly to yet another problem: there is not a single witness who provided any kind of precise account of the alleged gassings at Majdanek. This created obvious problems for Józef Marszałek, the former head of the Majdanek Memorial Institution, when he wrote his book on the camp in 1981 and caused him to include an excerpt of Pery Broad’s report on Auschwitz, adding merely that the gassings at Majdanek were carried out in an “analogous” manner[10]! In the absence of any eye-witness of such gassings, Kranz makes use of someone who at least saw the result, i.e. the corpses, and promptly falls foul of anti-factual testimony. The witness in question, a former detainee by the name of Franz A., who was questioned in 1965 during the preparations of the Düsseldorf Majdanek trial in fact made the following statement:
Germans of the 21st century know what happened during the Nazi era because they learn about it in school, through television programs and various other sources. And this information did not arise from rumor or questionable hearsay. Nor was it a fabrication of the Jewish people, as suggested by some anti-Semitic factions. Proof of the Holocaust was based on the record of solid evidence produced at the [Nuremberg] trial.[1]
In a word, take away the Holocaust ideology and one important "justification" of the American and British war effort against Germany is consigned to the dustbin of history. Americans and Britons will start asking uncomfortable questions, such as: Why did we go to war with Germany? Maybe we should not have gone to war with Germany, and maybe it was a huge error to be allied with the murderous Stalinist regime? Questions like this clearly pose a threat to the power and influence of the governing elites in American and British society.
In his 1994 paper, Aynat put forward a number of arguments disputing that claim, among them German wartime documents indicating that Jews fit for labor where sent to Auschwitz for the purpose of labor deployment, whereas those unfit for work were meant to be deported not to Auschwitz but to the “Government General”, i.e., occupied Poland. Since during the war Germany had incorporated the area around Auschwitz into its province of Upper Silesia, in their eyes Auschwitz was a part of Germany, not of occupied Poland.
Hitherto the Coalition has been a stronger defender of free speech than the more doctrinaire Labor Party. It has promised to repeal part, but not all, of the Racial Discrimination Act after it comes to power in order to diminish restrictions on public discussion of racial and ethnic issues. This latest development suggests that it will not, however, repeal current provisions against ‘racial hatred’ and that it will not defend free speech for dissident commentators on the Holocaust. It is reasonable to feel concern that it may even actively work to suppress their views, in accordance with the United Nations Organisation resolution of 1st November 2005.[3]
Nonetheless the “Holocaust” remains the lone official religion of the entire West, a murderous religion if ever there was one. And one that continues to fool millions of good souls in the crudest ways: the display of heaps of eyeglasses, hair, shoes or valises presented as “relics” of the “gassed”, faked or deceptively exploited photographs, texts of innocuous papers altered or purposely misinterpreted, endless proliferation of monuments, ceremonies, shows, the drumming of the Shoah into our heads as early as primary school, organised excursions to the holy sites of alleged Jewish martyrdom and great show trials with their calls for lynch-law.
This, together with Berg's behind-the-scenes "discussion" of the critically commented Leuchter report ten years after the critique’s first appearance, gives the impression that Berg does not keep track of revisionist research and publishing activities. Well, considering that he propounds two different, mutually exclusive and wrong interpretations of a single document just 13 pages apart, there is evidence that he doesn't even keep track of his own writings.
Grumbach’s irritation with revisionism becomes manifest when he complains that “Amaudruz’s articles in Le Courrier du Continent all contain extracts which purport to negate the existence of the gas chambers, cast doubt on the extent of Shoah and in effect deny its existence and make reference to blackmail for which the figure of six million victims was allegedly used.”[32]
The German public became aware of the alleged genocide of European Jewry only when U.S. and British troops entered German concentration camps at the end of World War II. The horrific scenes of huge piles of dead bodies and emaciated and diseased surviving inmates were filmed and photographed for posterity by the U.S. Army Signal Corps. Films of the horrific scenes at the camps were made mandatory viewing for the vanquished populace of Germany, so that their national pride would be destroyed and replaced with feelings of collective guilt.
[27] Kulaszka, Barbara, (ed.), Did Six Million Really Die: Report of Evidence in the Canadian “False News” Trial of Ernst Zündel, Toronto: Samisdat Publishers Ltd., 1992, pp. 253-255.
And the analogy with what in retrospect has been characterized as the beginning of the Holocaust is close indeed. Is a reprise of the Holocaust—whatever it actually was—at hand, in some of the same countries, this time with victims whose resemblance to the Jews of 1938 goes little further than their tending not to interbreed with their non-Roma neighbors? While critics of the Jews tended to cite their sharp practices in business, in some cases actual crime—but always white-collar crime—critics of the Roma tend to cite their thievery and propensity to burglarize. Neither group has received much accusation of violence, but while the Roma arouse distaste with their apparent poverty, Jews tended to arouse envy in Germany and elsewhere because of their apparent prosperity. Above all, the Jews had wealthy and influential contingents in rich and powerful countries like the United Kingdom, the United States and, yes, France, to take up cries such as "JUDEA DECLARES WAR ON GERMANY" with which to threaten the Nazis as soon as they took power in 1933.
The full extent of and final word on Manhattan Project infiltration by Soviet espionage remains hidden until the further opening of Soviet archives.[23] However, the weight of the evidence currently indicates that Robert Oppenheimer knowingly passed secrets of the Manhattan Project to Soviet agents.
“Owing to the fact that he actually has some understanding of chemistry, many of his deceptions are more sophisticated than other Holocaust deniers. […] Ultimately, he engages in the same deceptions and specious arguments as [Fred] Leuchter and [Walter] Lüftl , but the case he makes for those deceptions and arguments involves more difficult chemistry.”
"If it had not been for a typhus epidemic and overcrowding, the word Belsen might never have entered our vocabulary of the Holocaust. Unfortunately, near the end of the war prisoners from every part of Europe were trucked, marched, or taken by cattle car to Belsen to escape the advancing Allies. Thus, the camp doubled in size in the last months. Food became scarce or nonexistent. Because of the influx of diseased evacuees, one of the worst typhus plagues in the history of the camps broke out, sweeping through Belsen in almost demonic fury. Most of the camp population died either from starvation or typhus, or a combination of both—so quickly that thousands of bodies piled up all over the area."[57]
Kruk, however, did not believe that the Łódz Jews had been gassed at Chełmno, as he himself had met two of the Jews deported from that city in Vilnius, to where they had escaped from a labor camp.[24] Polish Jews would of course easily have blended into most of the occupied Soviet territories, as they belonged to the same cultural sphere and spoke Yiddish. Moreover a relatively large number of Polish Jews, most of them from eastern Poland, had fled to Belarus (and to a smaller extent to Lithuania) after 1939. In the summer of 1941 some of them were not evacuated by the Soviets but remained behind and became ghetto and camp inmates. The presence of Polish Jews on occupied Soviet territory would thus arouse little attention. On the other hand, as I have shown in my ongoing Inconvenient History article series "Evidence for the Presence of 'Gassed' Jews in the Occupied Eastern Territories", there appeared frequently during 1942-1944 reports about Jews from Western and Central Europe being transported to the besetzte Ostgebiete, especially to Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus and Transnistria. Clearly the experts of the World Jewish Congress found these reports reliable. It appears that the idea of Western Jews being gassed en masse in the "death camps" was adopted on a broad front only in the summer or early autumn of 1944, around the time that the Red Army liberated the Majdanek camp. As late as in May 1944 the aforementioned Judisk Krönika reported that 25,000 Western Jews were present in Vilnius, Lithuania.[25]
In August 1944, the Red Army conquered the area around Treblinka, and a Soviet commission questioned former inmates of the camp. What murder weapon would it opt for – gas or steam? As a matter of fact, it chose neither, but claimed in its report that three million people had been killed at Treblinka by pumping the air out of the execution chambers![33] In September 1944, a professional atrocity propaganda monger, Wassili Grossman, honored Treblinka with his visit. In his pamphlet The Hell of Treblinka Grossman confirmed the figure of three million victims; as he could not know which of the three killing methods (steam, gas and pumping the air out of the chambers) would finally prevail, he prudently mentioned all of them in his booklet.[34]
Undated. Louis (Lajos) Marschalko's book The World Conquerors. The Real War Criminals (translated into English from a manuscript in Hungarian) is published in London by Joseph Sueli. Chapter 11 of this book is entitled "What Has Become of Six Million Jews?" Here the author discusses the origin of the six-million figure in the statements of Wilhelm Hoettl, as well as the Madagascar plan and the pre-war National Socialist policy of Jewish emigration. Marschalko considers it "unlikely" that the outbreak of the war caused a switch to a policy of extermination, while concluding that the "Final solution of the Jewish question" was territorial in nature. He further suggests that especially the eastern Jews suffered heavy losses due to the partisan warfare and reprisal actions linked to it, while generally dismissing the gas-chamber and extermination-camp allegations as propaganda. Marschalko also points out the Allied nations' curious silence on the Jewish "exterminations" during the war. Moreover the author writes (without, however, providing a source) that German POWs had to "reconstruct" a gas chamber at Dachau and also notes that the crematorium ovens at Dachau were completely inadequate for the incineration of the number of victims claimed at that time (238,000). Finally, the author disputes the six-million figure from a demographic-statistical viewpoint, based primarily on the arguments found in the 1946 Baseler Nachrichten article.[2] Special attention is given to the Hungarian Jews: Jewish claims of 600,000 dead Hungarian Jews are contrasted with a New York Times article stating the same number as 200,000 and official Hungarian statistics reporting losses of merely 120,000 Hungarian Jews (again the author provides no exact references). Based on reported numbers of displaced Hungarian Jews, Marschalko concludes that the real number of perished Hungarian Jews amounted to approximately 60,000 people.
Similar to this is the account given by Dr. Charles Larson, a U.S. forensic pathologist working for the U.S. Army’s Judge Advocate General. Right after the war, Dr. Larson performed autopsies on hundreds of victims in some twenty former concentration camps. In 1980, a newspaper article appeared reporting about his wartime experience. We read there:[46]
Of course this is what David Irving had maintained all along, the difference between the two being that Oleksy wasn’t fined for her comments or banned from entering Germany or France for saying it. Rather astoundingly, however, Irving is banned from Auschwitz!
Better evidence that Fig. 2 was not discovered on an SS man is hardly needed. This should be a warning to all those who uncritically accept such claims.
In 1950 Paul Rassinier published Le Mensonge d’Ulysse: regard sur la littérature concentrationnaire (The Lies of Ulysses: A Look at the Concentration Camp Literature).[8]
Of course there never was any crematorium there, proving that the rumors were not fully confirmed but fully worthless. And an even better example for this can be found a few paragraphs later:
As to the shooting facilities of Sachsenhausen, we have to differentiate between three (fictive or real) installations, which must not be confused with each other:
Berg concluded concerning the evidence provided for the alleged German Diesel gas chambers: “Ultimately, the burden of proof for the mass gassing allegations must be on the accusers. Until now, their best evidence for CO gassings has failed to meet the most basic standards that credible evidence must pass to satisfy reasonable people.”[45]
Auschwitz
A passage from Lipstadt’s 1993 Denying the Holocaust may shed light upon her present-day motives. She opined: “There is a psychological dimension to the deniers’ and minimizers’ [Holocaust revisionists’] objectives: The general public tends to accord victims of genocide a certain moral authority. If you devictimize a people you strip them of their moral authority, and if you can in turn claim to be a victim, as the Poles and Austrians often try to do, that moral authority is conferred on or restored to you.”[8]
I note first of all that, in this version, the scene takes place at Crematorium II instead of Crematorium III. Venezia has furthermore abandoned the unsustainable story of the "picket fence three meters high". I add that the windows of the crematorium were double windows, and were all protected by an iron grid, non-negligible details which could not escape an outside observer.
Scholars such as Israeli Holocaust expert Yehuda Bauer and Dr. Franciszek Piper decided around 1989 to lower the Auschwitz-Birkenau death count. Dr. Piper states in his book Auschwitz: How Many Perished, “Altogether, a total of about 1,100,000 Jews ended up in Auschwitz-Birkenau in the years 1940-1945.”[26] The number of approximately 1 million Jews who died at Auschwitz-Birkenau is most-often used as the official figure today, although some pro-Holocaust researchers such as Jean-Claude Pressac use much lower estimates. By dramatically lowering the figures, the camp curators were in effect admitting that the Communists and other officials had fabricated numbers that were too inflated to be believed. The 4-million Jewish deaths at Auschwitz-Birkenau had to be lowered to approximately 1 million in order to maintain the credibility of the overarching Holocaust story.
Unlike the history of any other figure or era, the history of the Holocaust cannot be challenged without accusations of intolerance, anti-Semitism, and neo-Fascism. In fact, recently, the IHRA (International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) came up with a working definition of "Holocaust denial" (a pejorative term intended to conjure images of irrational hatred, bigotry, and falsification). While the so-called working definition of "Holocaust denial" is not legally binding, with participation from 31 "democracies" it is not far-fetched that the new definition will be used in the future to prosecute non-believers. The definition itself (a series of points) even condemns "Holocaust distortion." Perhaps the two most relevant points contained in the new definition are:
In the background of these architectural considerations, there is a more basic question: The Auschwitz camp administration had been aware, practically from the moment it was established, of the work of Degesch Co., the makers of Zyklon B, in the field of the design and operation of disinfestation chambers. As a matter of fact, delousing chambers using the Degesch-Kreislauf system were in actual use for the treatment of clothing and other objects as part of the Auschwitz reception facilities – most if not all of the Zyklon B delivered to Auschwitz was employed for this purpose. It is even claimed that the Degesch work had inspired the camp authorities when it came to finding a suitable agent for mass killings, namely Zyklon B. This system functioned in a self-contained and automatic way: in a gas-tight chamber, the Zyklon B cans were safely opened mechanically, the pellets fell into a pan, and a stream of warm air facilitated the speedy release and a good distribution of the gas in the chamber.
One thing is for sure: we obviously cannot believe everything we hear about the Holocaust, because the things we hear often contradict one another.
The Dachau “gas chamber” is a room with a seven-foot-high ceiling in which are embedded fake, sheet metal showerheads. Here’s a photo of it:8
This is when I realized I was dealing with cold-blooded killers filled with moralistic hatred. They considered the Germans subhuman and worthy of extermination; another expression of the downward spiral of racism. Articles in the G.I. newspaper, Stars and Stripes, played up the German concentration camps, complete with photos of emaciated bodies; this amplified our self-righteous cruelty and made it easier to imitate behavior we were supposed to oppose. Also, I think, soldiers not exposed to combat were trying to prove how tough they were by taking it out on the prisoners and civilians.
It would be quite interesting how blogger S. Romanov would react if presented with the statements of all these eyewitnesses. Most probably he would argue that the witnesses had actually seen a gasoline engine, but unfortunately failed to identify it crrectly. The first witness had identified it as a train wagon the floor of which was covered with quicklime, the second as an electrified plate in a barrack, the third as an electrified plate in a huge subterranean basin, the fourth as a ceiling with openings through which a black liquid was poured, the fifth as a mobile gas chamber moving along mass graves, the sixth as a steam-generating boiler, the seventh as a pump by means of which the air was pumped out of the chambers, and the eighth as a diesel engine! But these minor differences were entirely irrelevant, as the Aktion Reinhardt Holocaust was a proven historical fact!
It was not until the prosecution reached the charges of enslavement and mass murder that it began to have success. The prosecution introduced scores of witnesses who had been in Auschwitz to support these charges. Through former Auschwitz inmates, physicians and even some I.G. Farben officials, the prosecution witnesses told stories that were gruesome but still had the ring of truth. These prosecution witnesses testified to the horrific conditions at Auschwitz and Monowitz, and many testified that mass murder had taken place in the two camps.[11]
As a third example, consider another group allegedly targeted by Hitler: homosexuals. In 1975 the NYT reported that “nearly a quarter of a million homosexuals were executed by the Nazis between 1937 and 1945” (Sep 10; p. 45). Six years later, Rector (1981: 116) wrote, “It seems reasonable to conclude that at least 500,000 gays died in the Holocaust because of anti-homosexual prejudice that consequently led to a Nazi policy of gay genocide…” “Actually,” he adds, “500,000 may be too conservative a figure.” Today, however, Grau (1998: 140) admits this: “An examination of the Third Reich’s trial statistics…reveals that these numbers are wildly exaggerated.” Putting hard figures to it, Novick (1999: 223) says, “The actual number of gays who died or were killed in the camps appears to be around five thousand, conceivably as high as ten thousand.” Another astonishing development. Here we see a drop from a “conservative” 500,000 to perhaps 5,000—the actual figures now coming in at a mere 1% of prior estimates. Thus we should not be too surprised if the overall Jewish death toll ultimately drops by 90% or more. Given the facts, it seems inevitable.
Schelvis then provides evidence that undermines this orthodox Sobibor saga. Even though he too claimed that Sobibor was a “top secret” extermination camp, he still wrote: “[B]y September or October of 1942, when the Germans had started to burn rather than bury the bodies after gassing them, virtually everyone in the surrounding area soon realized precisely what was going on at the camp. The glow from the fire was clearly visible for miles around, especially by night, while the foul stench of burning human flesh also polluted the air over a wide area.”[75]
“It is said that the Yad Vashem archives in Jerusalem now have the names of between 2.5 and 3 million Jewish ‘dead from the Nazi holocaust.’ The data have supposedly been ‘collected on one-page testimony sheets filled in by relatives or witnesses or friends.’ […] There is no doubt that many Jews died during the war, so we should expect that a part of the Yad Vashem claim is valid, but it is also the case that there is no possible way to distinguish, in this data, between Jews who actually died during the war and Jews with whom the signers of the ‘testimony sheets’ have merely lost contact. The data is particularly meaningless when it is a ‘friend’ who has contributed a declaration; I have lost contact with a great many former friends and acquaintances, but I assume that nearly all are still alive. Indeed, the use of the testimony of ‘friends’ for the purpose of gathering the Yad Vashem data shows that the data is mostly meaningless; such ‘friends’ have no more basis for declaring their missing acquaintances dead than I do.”
In the face of overwhelming evidence that this room was never used to gas anyone, mainstream historians now claim that the inmates employed to build this gas chamber managed to sabotage its completion by dawdling on the job for some three years, or so we read in the original French edition of Paul Berben’s “official history” of the camp, quote:[38]
To start with the differences: the Arkansas victims and their accused murderers had no differences of race, language, or religion. They weren’t close neighbors nor did the threesomes know each other. There was no doubt that the boys had been killed, all at about the same time, that they had sustained heavy blows to the head, that they were naked and hogtied, that they had drowned, and there were no other victims. One of the accused had manifested an intense interest in the occult, and another was borderline retarded. As to the Holocaust, there exist substantial differences of opinion as to the numbers of the victims, and exactly what fates besides death befell the victims (deportation to Central Asia, emigration to Israel or other countries, even assimilation into surrounding non-Jewish populations, all accompanied by changes of name).
Not content with only coerced confessions to justify hanging Nazis, the liberators of the Dachau concentration camp decided to create some physical evidence: they built a gas chamber of their own. Presented as a real gas chamber to tourists for years (and introduced into evidence as such at Nuremberg), the Dachau Museum later informed visitors no one was ever gassed there.7 Less truthfully, they didn’t go on to explain why it’s impossible for anyone to have been gassed in the showcase gas chamber.
[19] Donat, Alexander (editor), The Death Camp Treblinka: A Documentary, New York: Holocaust Library, 1979, pp. 163-164.
“It is worth noting, as Harry Baehr has, that since World War II public attitudes on the interwar revisionist controversy have been reversed. The battle won in the 1920s and 1930s by men like Harry Elmer Barnes, Charles Beard, C. Hartley Grattan, Walter Millis, and Charles Tansill has since been lost. And, as Baehr noted, not new evidence but attitudes toward World War II and American intervention in World War II have reversed the tide. The prominence of Barnes, Beard, and Tansill on the side of those whose “truths” regarding FDR’s policies have thus far been rejected has served further to bring their pre-Pearl Harbor work into disrepute.”[9]
However, the air-reconnaissance photographs published by van Pelt, taken on 31 May, 26 June and 25 August 1944, show no smoke at all coming from any of the crematoria. This means that on at least three of the most hectic days of homicidal activity the crematoria themselves stood idle. On the photograph of 31 May, there is a wisp of white smoke in the yard behind Crematorium V, similar to what can be seen on the air-reconnaissance photograph dated 23 August 1944 that will be discussed below. Aside from this particular site, one can say that, when those photographs were taken, no open-air cremations of any kind had been going on anywhere in or near the camp for at least a day or two, if not more, because we know from the experience gathered during the foot-and-mouth epidemic which struck western Europe a few years ago that the pyres set up to incinerate the dead animals would burn for several days giving off much smoke, and smolder or be hot for up to two weeks.
"The new [crematorium] building had a gas chamber for executions… The gas chamber was labeled ‘shower room’ over the entrance and was a large room with airtight doors and double-glassed lights, sealed and gas proof. The ceiling was studded with dummy shower heads. A small observation peephole, double-glassed and hermetically sealed, was used to observe the conditions of the victims. There were grates in the floor. Hydrogen cyanide was mixed in the room below, and rose into the gas chamber and out the top vents."
“I was in Auschwitz only three or four days. […] I was sent to a barrack and we were all transported to a camp in Bavaria."
The Auschwitz death-registry volumes call into question the existence of homicidal gas chambers. Why would the German authorities record executions by shooting or hanging and not record any by gassings? Also, why did the Soviets suppress the release of these volumes for 44 years? The Auschwitz death-registry volumes are totally inconsistent with Auschwitz being a center of mass extermination using homicidal gas chambers.[22]
The three judges refused to let the trial degenerate into a total legal farce, like the show trials in the Stalinist Soviet Union and Communist Eastern Europe. After all, for the world to take it seriously, Israel could not afford to let the Eichmann trial to be viewed like the Stalinist show trials of the 1930s. Lipstadt reveals how successfully the divergent goals of both the judges and prosecutor ultimately serviced Zionist objectives: “The judges’ primary objective was to conduct a scrupulously fair legal proceeding that would win the respect of the world. Hausner’s goal was to tell the story of the Holocaust in all its detail, and in so doing, to capture the imagination not just of Israel’s youth and world Jewry, but of the entire world (p. 121).”
Government speakers clearly failed to rebut the free speech argument. Mr. Latham (the member for Werriwa) tried to set up an alternative ideal of “fair speech, consistent with tolerance and understanding.”[43] This ignores the fact that people have varying degrees of understanding, different ideas of what should be tolerated and different ideas about what is or is not fair speech. Ms. Henzell (the member for Capricornia) did not want the law “to permit disadvantaged or vulnerable groups to be seriously harmed by more powerful groups.”[44] However, the bill’s supporters as a group failed completely to produce evidence of such “serious harm” to ethnic minorities within Australia on a sizeable scale. Mr. Theophanous (the member for Calwell) stated that “there are limits to utterances when they promote racial hatred and undermine multicultural society.”[45] This ignored the fact that many Australians might want to argue in favor of a homogeneous, if not monocultural society, and that such a position in no way automatically indicates that they are racial haters. Later this speaker made a most significant interjection: “It is to stop Nazis and others in Australia of their type that this bill has been organized!”[46] He may inadvertently have pointed to a secret agenda behind the bill designed in the interests of one particular ethnic minority –Jews. Mrs. Easson (the member for Lowe) said: “This bill… attacks the public tolerance of racist speech. If we declare our intolerance of racist speech, the social ethos will evolve over time away from racism.”[47] This smacks more of social engineering than assistance of vulnerable persons. And Mr. Hollis (the member for Throsby) saw the bill as rejecting “the right of racists to go out and practice their craft”.[48] For him, perhaps, “racists” were any people who disagreed with himself on issues involving race. To sum up, the Government speakers were bent on censorship, proud of their moral virtue and unwilling or unable to countenance the existence of, and the expression of, a plurality of views on matters involving race - or the possibility that their own views might be to some extent erroneous.
Cyrus Cox. Auschwitz—Forensically Examined. Castle Hill Publications, Uckfield, UK, 114 pp., £8/$10.
The roof of the semi-underground Morgue #1 of Crematorium II at Birkenau, which is said to have been the building’s homicidal gas chamber, remains intact to some degree today. Contrary to eyewitness testimony, that roof has no Zyklon-B-introduction holes. This has been acknowledged by pro-Holocaust researcher Robert Jan van Pelt. Since it is impossible to close holes measuring 70 x 70 cm from a concrete roof without leaving clearly visible traces, it is certain that no Zyklon-B-introduction holes ever existed at Crematorium II. Consequently, Zyklon B could not have been introduced through the roof at this morgue as alleged by pro-Holocaust supporters.[25]
“We are not very interested in what becomes of them after that.” Harsh and brutal, perhaps, but clearly far less than genocide. The same thought was echoed by Hans Frank, in a memo of December 16:
“Near the village of Trostenets, located 11 km from Minsk along the Minsk-Mogilev highway, the Nazis created the so-called labor camp Blagovshchina. Under this false guise was operated a death camp which had access to the railroad […]. In a concentration camp near the village of Trostenets the Nazis systematically slaughtered between 1941 and 1944 hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom were Jews from Minsk and other locations in Belarus. Others were political prisoners kept by the Germans, or Jews from the cities of Austria, Germany, Poland and Czechoslovakia. Most of the victims were women, children and old people. Some of them were brought in vans that were colloquially known as 'black ravens' or 'gas vans'. The victims were suffocated by exhaust gases, and their corpses unloaded at a pre-dug pit in the Blagovshchina Forest. Many trains arrived from cities in Belarus and the countries of Western Europe. […] With two-faced courtesy the doomed were asked to surrender their valuables and belongings, for which in turn they were handed receipts. The hangmen created the appearance that they would be taken to work at another location. They were loaded onto large trucks with trailers that stood ready nearby and taken to the execution site, where they were ordered without any courtesy to undress and then shot.”[87]
British historians did not like Allen’s argument and so, were the letters he cited somehow anomalous? How did Britain’s main Establishment newspaper The Telegraph have the authority to declare that manuscripts kept in the National Archives were forged - well before the NA’s own forensic experts had had time to peruse them?
In late 1946 and early 1947, a ”forensic commission“ headed by one of Russia’s most illustrious  pathologists, Professor V. I. Prosorovski, visited Sachsenhausen, but apparently did not carry out any further investigations. Prosorovski was no newcomer to this kind of activity: He had served as an expert for the ESC at the “war crimes trials” at Krasnodar[5] and Kharkov[6],[7] (1943), co-authored the Soviet counter-expertise at Katyn[8] (January 1944) and acted in the Katyn case as a witness for the prosecution at Nuremberg. It goes without saying that his forensic reports invariably confirmed the version of the ESC. As a citizen of the Stalinist Soviet Union, he had of course no other choice.
But at the end of the day, dear observer, you probably needn’t trouble yourself. Because you could safely remain silent while they took the Holocaust deniers; for you weren’t a Holocaust denier, after all. You remained silent also when they came for the Nazis; you were certainly no Nazi. When they came for the right-wingers, you still remained silent, as you were certainly no right-winger. When finally they come for you, there will be no one left who could protest.
The German euthanasia program is a well-documented reality. Hitler authorized the euthanasia program in writing, the defendants at the Doctors’ Trial admitted their involvement in the program, the best method for killing victims was discussed among the participants in the program, the carbon-monoxide gas used in the German euthanasia program can safely and effectively kill people, and the euthanasia program was widely known by the German public. In fact, public opposition to the program was so strong in Germany that Hitler ordered the end of the first phase of the euthanasia program in August 1941.
[27] http://www.holocaustresearchproject.org/ar/treblinka/treblinkarememberme.html.
On April 30, 2004, a three-judge panel ruled that Demjanjuk could be again stripped of his citizenship because the Justice Department had presented "clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence" of his service in Nazi concentration camps. In December 2005, Demjanjuk was ordered to be deported. In an attempt to avoid deportation, Demjanjuk sought protection under the United Nations Convention against Torture, claiming that he would be prosecuted and tortured if he were deported to Ukraine. Chief U.S. Immigration Judge Michael Creppy ruled that there was no evidence to substantiate Demjanjuk's claim and so the hounding would continue.
The Nine Banded Books edition is a beautiful softcover edition.  The cover cleverly depicts a Meerschaum pipe recalling images of the Baker Street detective.  But for the initiated, it also brings to mind Rene Magritte’s painting, “Ceci n'est pas une pipe" ("This is not a pipe") Just as Magritte’s point was that his “pipe” was merely an image of a pipe, so we are confronted with traces and stories that are not gas chambers, but rather images of gas chambers.
It would also be inaccurate to claim that American physicians were morally superior to the German physicians. During the Doctors’ Trial at Nuremberg, Dr. Karl Brandt and the other defendants were infuriated at the moral high ground taken by the U.S. prosecution. Evidence showed that the Allies had been engaged in illegal medical experimentation, including poison experiments on condemned prisoners in other countries, malaria experiments, and cholera and plague experiments on children.[30]
“In the adjacent chamber were the so-called ’baths.’ Here, up to 1,500 people were crammed together in a suffocating environment. They were placed under the ‘shower,’ and were told to prepare themselves for a bath. From the moment that the heavy metal door closed, their death was only minutes away. For those of us who were outside, it seemed like an eternity. The gas pellets were in a container that was screwed into a hole in the middle of the ceiling. When the door was closed, they unscrewed the cap and opened the gas container. Small blue stones began to fall from the container. The gas, called ’Zyklon,’ began to spread rapidly into the air.”
In his 1999 book Kalkulierte Morde (Calculated Murder) German Holocaust historian Christian Gerlach references several witnesses attesting to deportations of French and Dutch Jews to Belarus:
There exist some practical means to launch a real action against this false religion with its sanctuary located at Auschwitz.
[6] Rudolf, Germar, “A Brief History of Forensic Examinations of Auschwitz,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 20, No. 2, March/April 2001, p. 7.
There's plenty of evidence in this book that Hitchens needs to get himself a new crystal ball. Thus, for example, in "Ha Ha Ha to the Pacifists," published in Guardian, November 29, 2001, Hitchens predicted, "The Taliban will soon be history." Hitchens, like other warmongers, is consistently pessimistic about peace and optimistic about war. But more than eight years later the Taliban are still not history.
The Irving-Lipstadt libel trial was by no means Irving’s only day in court. On the other occasions, Irving is found in the defendant’s dock, to which those who espouse inconvenient views of history are much more-accustomed as a group. Irving has been charged with, and found guilty of, illegal speech—always on historical matters—in at least four countries, has been deported from Canada, barred from entering Australia, fined in Germany, and imprisoned in Austria. The year he spent in prison in Austria for “Holocaust denial” formed the basis for his only autobiographical work to date, Banged Up. In that Irving was well aware of the charges pending against him in Austria at the time of his 2005 return to that country, it would very much seem that Irving meant to face the charges there, whatever his expectations regarding the verdict might have been.
The word “genocide” has been used repeatedly by the media and in history books to describe the treatment of Jews by National Socialist Germany during World War II. Raphael Lemkin’s invented word “genocide” applies more appropriately to the Allied treatment of the German people after World War II.
“The prisoners would remove the slab from outside and the soldiers added the frozen gas, which was in the form of liquid crystals weighing about one kilogram. From closure till the crystals turned to gas, about one hour passed. In the winter we would first preheat the chamber, setting fire with coals to accelerate the evaporation. To make sure that they were all dead, we had to wait one more hour before opening the door.”
The Ball study was small, a mere six wall samples taken in all, without any precise location given. A fierce debate, colored alas by political agendas, has swirled around the question of what parts of old brickwork may or may not have been regularly exposed to hydrogen cyanide gas. Hence evidence locating each sampling site is here rather vital in reconstructing the historical use. We have here excluded Ball’s samples on the grounds that its author has not been available to answer questions concerning the exact locations of his samples.
In a meeting on December 18, 1939, Hitler let it be known that his preference was for a neutral Norway, but if the enemy tried to extend the war into this area, he would be forced to stop them. Hitler soon had convincing evidence that Britain would not respect Norwegian neutrality. German naval intelligence in February 1940 broke the British naval codes and obtained important and accurate information about Allied activities and plans. The intercepts indicated the Allies were preparing for operations against Norway using the pretext of helping Finland in its defense against the invasion by the Soviet Union underway at the time. The intercepts confirmed Adm. Raeder’s fears about British intentions.[3]
Das hält Israels Holocaust-Museum und andere nicht davon ab, Gasduschen-Unsinn zu verbreiten. Die “HistoryWiz”-Website präsentiert ein wichtiges Zitat:
The existence of the separate "holding camp" at Trostenets (cf. §2.10.), which appears more than a little strange seen from the viewpoint of orthodox historiography, also makes sense in the light of the resettlement hypothesis.
A Russian asked Benjamin Ferencz why the Americans didn’t just kill the German war criminals. Ferencz replied: “…we don’t do that. We’ll give them a fair trial.”[27] Robert Kempner stated that the Nuremberg and other trials resulted in “the greatest history seminar ever held.”[28] In reality, Germans did not receive fair trials after World War II, and the trials they did receive played a major role in establishing the fraudulent Holocaust story.
Evans thus makes it clear that he detests what he calls “Holocaust denial.” However, Evans displays a remarkable ignorance of this subject. Evans writes of the chemistry aspects of the Leuchter Report: “[Fred] Leuchter had removed samples from the inner walls of Crematorium II at Auschwitz-Birkenau and had them analyzed, with the result that the concentration of cyanide residues was found to be slight, compared with the concentrations found in the delousing facilities, thus showing, he had triumphantly declared, that the crematorium was not used for gassing people. But he had taken great chunks out of the wall instead of scrapings off the surface, thus greatly diluting whatever residues were to be found there.”[6]
Thomas Buergenthal is a Jewish survivor of Auschwitz-Birkenau and Sachsenhausen as well as the Polish ghetto of Kielce. Buergenthal, a Harvard-educated lawyer who served on the International Court of Justice at The Hague, was only 10 years old when he arrived in Auschwitz. Buergenthal claims in his memoir, A Lucky Child, that his group was spared the selection process because it luckily arrived in Auschwitz instead of Birkenau.[9]
Whatever the facts may be on this issue, it is imperative that this potentially extremely important historical document is appropriately presented to the public, be it in another book, an article or online. Since it is unlikely that Baxter will respond to an appeal voiced by revisionists, I await exterminationist Holocaust historians and anti-revisionists to do their best to get Baxter or Reuss to publish the document(s). Surely here they have an excellent opportunity to finally prove with documentary evidence the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Treblinka?
In London on 29 October 1942, Christian and Jewish leaders led a public protest against the alleged mass murders of Jews that were supposedly taking place in the German concentration camps. Churchill, who was in the United States at the time, addressed the gathering by way of a letter that was read by the Archbishop of Canterbury. It stated in part:
As we search in the detritus of history for the causes, the “beginnings” of various developments apparent in the light of retrospection (and the unopposable declarations of the victors), it is obviously essential to carefully specify the nature and magnitude of the developments whose genesis is sought. Most “Holocaust” “history,” of course, fails miserably at this indispensable launching point.
In Table 4 below I present for reference a non-exhaustive list of reported or alleged mass killings of Latvian Jews in rural communities up until mid-October 1941, by which time, according to the first Stahleckecker Report, Einsatzgruppe A had killed a total of 30,025 Latvian Jews. For many of the smaller provincial Jewish communities the available sources simply state that they were exterminated in the “summer of 1941” or “fall of 1941” or simply “in the second half of 1941”. The survey is based mainly on five scholarly sources published after the year 2000: Geoffrey P. Megargee, Martin Dean (eds.), The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Encyclopedia of Camps and Ghettos 1933–1945, Volume II: Ghettos in German-Occupied Eastern Europe, Part B (op.cit.), which I will abbreviate in the table below as “UE”; Shmuel Spector, Geoffrey Wigoder (eds.), The Encyclopedia of Jewish Life before and during the Holocaust (New York University Press, New York 2001), in three volumes with running pagination, abbreviated below as “EJL”; and three volumes collecting papers from conferences held by the Commission of the Historians of Latvia, abbreviated below as “LV1”,[111] “LV2”[112] and “LV3”[113] respectively. Only a few massacres of provincial Latvian Jews are alleged to have taken place later than October 1941. 386 Jews are alleged to have been killed in Aizpute on 27 October (EJL, p. 24), whereas, remarkably enough, 26 Jews in Ludza were killed as late as 2 April 1942 (LV1, p. 253).
When evidence came their way regarding Demjanjuk’s wartime activities, the Israeli government argued forcibly for deportation and Demjanjuk was extradited and tried in Israel, in 1993, where he was positively identified by five former Treblinka inmates, who swore they had seen him in the vicinity of the camp’s gas chamber. He was found guilty and sentenced to death by hanging. After spending five years on Israel’s death row, he was eventually exonerated when it emerged that the American Justice department had ‘fraudulently withheld evidence…to curry favour with Jewish organizations.’[29] The judges concluded that the Office for Special Investigation (a section of the Justice department especially set up to investigate Nazi war criminals) and the prosecutors had ‘acted with reckless disregard for the truth.’[30] A Treblinka Nazi identity card, supposedly his, was, quite simply, a forgery. Demjanjuk had never even been to Treblinka. What this says about the quality of eyewitness testimony speaks for itself.
William Denson, the chief prosecuting attorney, used a legal concept called “common design” for establishing that camp personnel at Dachau were guilty of violating the laws and usages of war. The Dachau tribunal accepted Denson’s legal concept of common design. In common design, Denson exploited a legal concept broad enough to apply to everyone who had worked in Dachau.[3] In essence, every Dachau defendant was guilty unless proven innocent (a verdict most-unlikely to ensue).
Revising the history of the orthodox Holocaust narrative is just as perfectly acceptable as the revision of any other chapter of history. We draw the line, however, if anyone tries to justify or condone the civil rights violations committed by the Third Reich. We can discuss whether there were homicidal gas chambers used by the Third Reich to mass murder people, or whether the Third Reich planned and implemented a policy of extermination against Jews, Poles, Russians, Gypsies, Jehovah’s Witnesses, Homosexuals, etc., until we’re blue in the face, but we will not accept, publish, support or promote anything that tries to justify the use of homicidal gas chambers, or any other form of murder, or the implementation of any kind of policy in violation of civil right, be it a policy of ethnic cleansing, deportation, slave labor, or extermination.
“The Nazis did not hide the concentration camps. Their existence was well known and newspapers across the world carried stories about them.” (p. 73)
The book opens with an account of the “first Protestant Evangelical preacher killed for defying the Nazi regime on religious grounds,” Paul Schneider, at Buchenwald in 1939. He had been incarcerated there in 1937 after being warned many times about his criticism of the regime, including his ridicule of the stormtrooper martyr Horst Wessel. He had been freed from custody due to the lobbying of his parishioners. Two hundred local ministers, and a crowd of local parishioners attended his funeral.2 Hence one already might ask questions: Why hadn’t this monstrous terror state quietly eliminated Schneider in 1933, when he had already started critiquing the new regime? Why was he given so many warnings? Why did such a supposedly totalitarian state heed the lobbying for his release by parishioners? Why did he receive a widely attended public funeral, when he might have been quietly executed, and some pretext offered?
There is more to this story, but I will refrain from discussing it here. The interested reader can consult my expert report about that. At the end of it all, it boils down to the simple fact that Michał Kula, having made numerous false claims and having changed his testimony repeatedly, is an untrustworthy witness. In addition, the solution he suggested as to how Zyklon B was introduced into those morgues is simply impracticable and an insult to any engineer’s or architect’s intelligence – naturally bearing in mind the fact that the ruins of Crematorium II clearly prove that no such columns were ever installed any­way, if they ever existed in the first place.
The defense introduced into evidence 386 affidavits in an attempt to dispute the validity of the prosecution’s witnesses. The defense also attempted to counteract the damaging prosecution testimony by introducing affidavits detailing the efforts of the defendants to protect Jewish employees. For example, the Jew Carl von Weinberg fled to Italy with the aid of I.G. Farben officials. Weinberg received his pension of 80,000 Reichsmarks throughout the war at great risk to the members of the I.G. Farben hierarchy who had approved these payments.[12]
In Great Britain, a renewed drive to outlaw “Holocaust denial” erupted in 1996 at the behest of the usual instigators. The suggestion of enacting a “Holocaust-denial” bill similar to others existing in Israel and Europe was enthusiastically hailed by the Labor Party, and a motion was introduced to that effect by Labor legislator Michael Gapes, who declared, “There is no such thing as absolute freedom of speech. It is a question of balance.”[5]
At the end of August 1944 only 40 of the French Jews were still alive according to Maripuu. These were then evacuated to the Reich at the end of the month. A preserved list of arrivals shows that 34 of them were registered in the Stutthof camp on September 1, 1944.[155] Even assuming the version of events summarized above to be correct, it is clear that the purpose of Convoy 73 could not have been extermination, for in that case all of the Jews would have been executed more or less immediately after arrival, and no French Jews would have reached Stutthof in September 1944. Of course, from an exterminationist viewpoint it would make even less sense to exterminate these Jews in Estonia and Lithuania, as they could have easily been gassed at Auschwitz, thus saving the Germans the bother to transport them all the way to the Baltic countries. Based on the composition of the convoy and the deployment of the deportees in local labor camps, the inevitable conclusion is that the Jews of Convoy 73 were sent east for the purpose of labor.
The saga was marked at a number of points by contact with the regnant legal system, that of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Contacts of this nature for Holocaust revisionists are almost without exception adverse, even when the defendant is not forced to admit the violation of some law, such as those against “Holocaust denial” now on the books of most of the countries of Europe. The heroes of Spotlight, on the other hand, had the law solidly on their side, and despite recalcitrance exhibited by the occasional clerk or other functionary in the court system, their motions (in cases in which they were not defendants, nor plaintiffs) were upheld and the decisions in their favor greatly aided their project.
Curiously, in the German edition of the Encyclopedia of the Holocaust the camp in Bobruisk is described as “a transit camp for Jews from the West”.[13]
It is perhaps signiﬁcant that SOE’s leaders here register the point that – in the case of typhus – propaganda rumors had become fact. Had he been aware of genuine use of homicidal gas chambers, Cavendish-Bentinck could have made a similar point in August 1943: but he didn’t.
To be as thorough as possible, it was my original aim to include every significant entry on the Jews or the Jewish Question. But in a 29-volume set these proved too numerous for the present essay. Hence I will focus on the key time period, bounded by two significant events: Kristallnacht, and the deportation of the Hungarian Jews. Thus for the period from 1 September 1938 through 30 June 1944, I have included literally every noteworthy entry by Goebbels.[9] This exhaustive survey, covering nearly six years, gives the most complete picture possible of his perspective on the Jewish holocaust.
Leuchter’s ordeal began in January 1988, when he was contacted by members of Ernst Zündel’s defense team. In an effort to prepare the best possible defense for Zündel, who was charged with disseminating ‘false news’ in Canada, Robert Faurisson reasoned that the most obvious place to look for a qualified witness on the operation of homicidal gas chambers would be the United States, where condemned criminals were still subject in a number of states to execution in gas chambers.
Furnaces 80 meters long? An opening every two meters? Little rail cars passing by? Throwing corpses into furnaces? The furnace room of the largest crematoria in Auschwitz, nos. II and III, was 30 meters long. It was equipped with five furnaces that were 3.5 m wide each with three openings whose center was some 1.2 m apart. No carts were running on rails or otherwise to deliver the corpses, because that room was on the ground floor, while the alleged gas chamber was in the basement. They were linked only by a freight elevator.[1] Furthermore, corpses had to be introduced into the cremation muffle through the 60-cm narrow and even lower opening using a steel stretcher. They could not have been “thrown.” It is therefore evident that the informant had never even been near any of the Birkenau crematoria. And here’s the most interesting “information”:
For the purpose of this Statute, ‘genocide’ means any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such:
“The 1999 film about Leuchter features an interview with the chemist [Dr. James Roth] who had done the analysis of his wall-samples back in 1988. He had done this 'blind,’ i.e. with no knowledge of where they had come from, which was correct scientific procedure. During the second Zündel trial in Toronto in 1988 he testified under oath concerning the method used and what Leuchter had sent him. He said back then that hydrogen cyanide can easily penetrate into brick and mortar. But then, when he was interviewed again by Morris for his documentary, he suddenly stated that the results were quite meaningless, because the cyanide could only have soaked a few microns into the brickwork. Wow, that was quite a whopper. Mortar and brickwork are highly porous to hydrogen cyanide, obviously so because the delousing chambers were more or less equally blue inside and out, it had soaked right through. But you can watch him on video explaining this, as if he were confusing brick and mortar with rock. The latter will only absorb cyanide to a few microns of its surface.”
As Revisionists Jürgen Graf and Carlo Mattogno opined, a real and lasting reconciliation between the Polish and German peoples can only flourish on a foundation of complete truth about what really happened in those concentration camps located on Polish soil. The lies and exaggerations in the Holocaust mythology only exacerbate German-Polish hostilities.[85]
"Over the years, I’ve been fortunate enough to meet some of the great men and women who have inspired me with their work and their lives. In their presence I felt the radiant energy that living in-Spirit brings. In 1978, I was invited to go to Vienna to participate in a presentation to a group of young presidents of companies. I was assigned to be on a panel with a man who had been a huge source of inspiration to me: Viktor Frankl. Frankl was a medical doctor who had been herded off to die in a Nazi concentration camp in WW II; while imprisoned, he kept notes that ultimately became a book called Man’s Search for Meaning. This work, which touched me deeply, illustrated not only how Dr. Frankl survived the horrors of Auschwitz, but also how he helped other camp mates do the same. He taught them to be with his spirit and infuse it in others who were giving up on life. He even practiced sending love and peace to his captors, and refused to feel hatred and vengeance because he knew that this was foreign to his spirit, which he wouldn’t forsake. Viktor Frankl stayed true to his spiritual origins in the face of horrors that destroyed so many. When I met him, he exuded joy, peace, kindness, and love, and he wasn’t bitter. Instead, he felt that his experience taught him lessons he’d never have known otherwise. I spent a good part of that afternoon in Vienna listening and being in awe. Viktor Frankl had been one of the truly inspirational figures in my life, and being on the same panel—under the pretext of being a colleague of this master teacher—was overwhelming to me. It was an afternoon I’ve never forgotten, full of pure exhilaration and inspiration."
As you can see, of the 25 individuals listed, only five are a hit. Ten of the people Lipstadt discusses have never contributed anything of scholarly value to Holocaust revisionism. The late mainstream historian Dr. Nolte isn’t even a revisionist by any stretch of the imagination. He got into Dr. Lipstadt’s crosshairs only because he basically insisted that any historian claiming to be a scholar has to take the revisionists and their arguments seriously rather than ignore or malign them. Most of the others – Barnes, Hoggan, App, Carto, Zündel, Irving and Smith – have polemicized about the Holocaust, but not a single one of them has ever written even a single thoroughly researched and referenced article on the Holocaust, let alone a monograph. Lipstadt therefore cherry-picked these individuals exactly because they polemicized, which makes them an easy target. Bardèche even believed in the gas chambers and thus a Holocaust, in spite of Lipstadt’s false claim to the contrary on her page 56.[21]
The loss of friends never prevented Fischer from expressing his views. Fischer once refused to allow a Jewish chess player to enter his car until the man was willing to proclaim that the Holocaust was fraudulent. On January 13, 1999, during a live radio broadcast in Budapest, Fischer declared, “As Adolf Hitler wrote in Mein Kampf , the Jews are not the victims, they are the victimizers!”[xxiv]
”Based on documents found at the camp it was ascertained that in the period from 1942 to 1945 19,900 people died at the Sachsenhausen camp from various kinds of diseases alone.“
Barnes recognized that revisionism faced its greatest challenge from the overwhelming smotherout of atrocity tales and what would eventually come to be known as the Holocaust story. The Holocaust story over the past 50 years has developed into mythical proportions and is defended by an entire industry that has developed around it as well as a legal system which persecutes those who question any aspect of what has come to be the "official" account.
Do you ever go to concerts? Meet Jacob (Jacques) Stroumsa, the violinist of Auschwitz.
41. Victims being selected at Auschwitz, May/June 1944.
Dr. Robert Faurisson of France began to question the official Holocaust story and the existence of homicidal gas chambers in the German camps during World War II. Faurisson discovered that executions using hydrocyanic gas were first carried out in the United States in 1924. However, as late as 1988, major difficulties still existed in the construction of American homicidal gas chambers, including the problem of leakage. Since it was so difficult to execute just one person at a time in American gas chambers, Dr. Faurisson became convinced that the execution of hundreds of thousands of people in German homicidal gas chambers was not possible. Faurisson recommended that a scientific study be conducted by an American-gas-chamber expert to prove his conclusion.[2]
The presumed Holocaust of the Gypsies is, therefore, without historical foundation.
In March 1982, one month prior to the above-described press conference, the IJA officially released a “research report” dealing with the problem of Holocaust denial. The report predictably opens with a reference to “the political dangers inherent in the denial of the Holocaust, and the boost thus given to neo-Nazi propaganda…” and proffers detailed suggestions as to how “the law can deal with these problems.”[5]
And, again like many German survivors who found their ancestral homes and hence themselves, their families, and all their possessions outside the foreshortened limits of postwar rump Germany, survivors of the Holocaust, many virtually bereft of family and even health, found that recovering their pre-war lands or dwellings would entail a lethal struggle against entrenched opponents already long in possession of their sundered homesteads.
Hence, as of this day there is not a single known air photo of Auschwitz-Birkenau showing smoke coming out of any of the crematories. Yet there are several showing smoke billowing from a limited area in the yard of Crematory V, as for instance also on the one shot three days later, on Aug. 23, 1944, and on one taken on July 8 of that year. Aerial photography is unable to prove that witness statements of profusely smoking crematory chimneys at Auschwitz-Birkenau are accurate. In fact, the absense of smoke in these photographs suggests just the opposite.
Signed confessions by the defendants were often used to obtain convictions at the Dachau trial. Evidence was presented that many of the defendants in the Dachau trial made their confessions under torture. For example, defendant Johann Kick testified:
Thus, the evidence is overwhelming that large portions of the confessions and statements used at the Dachau trials were obtained under duress. While it is possible that members of the 7708 War Crimes Group did not use or know about these improper procedures, these forced confessions were nevertheless quite common.
These historians are not crypto-deniers, but the results of their work are the same: the blurring of boundaries between fact and fiction and between persecuted and persecutor. Ultimately the relativists contribute to the fostering of what I call the ‘yes, but’ syndrome. … Yes, there was a Holocaust, but it was essentially no different than an array of other conflagrations in which innocents were massacred.
Reductio ad Hitlerum is a piece of semantic jugglery which has been used by the conventionally named Left, Right and Center. The methodology has been used to label proponents of public health as “health Nazis” and “Nico-Nazis.” Ecologists have been called “eco-Nazis.”[72] One blogsite called “The Climate Scum,” “proves” that ecology is “Nazi” by showing an aerial view of a forest planted during the Third Reich, in which certain trees were planted out in the shape of a swastika.[73] The cases of those who are skeptical about anything relating to the Holocaust, or who raise objections to Zionism and Israel being called “Neo-Nazis” are too common to merit specific citations here. Enoch Powell’s prescient “Rivers of blood” speech in 1968 about New Commonwealth immigration into Britain was condemned with allusions to Auschwitz, and the spectre of Neo-Nazism and is still invoked should anyone question Third World immigration. Labour Party luminary Tony Benn at the time said of Powell’s speech: “‘The flag of racialism which has been hoisted in Wolverhampton is beginning to look like the one that fluttered 25 years ago over Dachau and Belsen,”[74] and so it remains…
Ecco: Dova Cohen, una dentista, nata in Ungheria il 28 gennaio 1903, ma residente in Ucraina… deportata ad Auschwitz e gasata il 28 giugno 1943.
“British agents today[33] captured Rudolf Hoess, former commandant of the Oswiecim concentration camp, ending a nine-month search for the man they described as probably ‘the greatest individual killer in the history of the world.’ Hoess was the missing man at the war crimes trial of Josef Kramer, ‘the Beast of Belsen.’ Kramer repeatedly accused him of gassing millions of Germans [sic] as Heinrich Himmler’s camp administrator.”
We’ve just received notice from the Auschwitz Museum, to the effect that they will not allow you access to the library or to any of the camp grounds. They control every inch of what used to be the Auschwitz complex and it would seem that we would be unable to film with you there. Reluctantly we have decided that we can’t go ahead with our original plan. It just isn’t possible.
Some Wall Street luminaries who are supposed to have been “pro-Nazi” on the basis of business affiliations in Germany were among those agitating for war against Germany. Foreign business holdings were held in trust throughout the war by Germany in accordance with international law. The one individual who had convincing links with international capital, Hjalmar Schacht, was relieved of all positions by 1939 and ended up in a concentration camp. Those German businessmen who did provide funds to the Nazi party did so at a comparatively late date, and were of nationalistic sentiments in a German tradition that was alien to that of the self-interest of the English free-trade school. Even those foreign businessmen who might reasonably have been expected to fund the NSDAP on ideological grounds, primarily Henry Ford, did not do so, persistent allegations to the contrary.
In one case, the investigation team managed to secure a sort of endorsement for the excess Zyklon supply [hereafter EZS] argument, but only based on the assumption that Auschwitz was much smaller than it in fact was: a statement taken from the gassing technician Gustav Kock[94] stated that he would be “astonished” at Zyklon orders of one ton monthly for two years from a camp the size of Neuengamme.[95] He repeated this statement at the trial.[96] Auschwitz, which had ordered 19 tons in two years, was meant, and the interrogator had suggested to Kock that Auschwitz was the size of Neuengamme or Gross Rosen. In another case, the British interrogating agent explicitly stated that Auschwitz was a normal sized camp, and was smaller than Sachsenhausen.[97] The confusion about the size of Auschwitz was compounded by the statements of the gassing technician August Marcinkowski, who recounted an early trip to the camp:
The air exhaust system starts with two openings in the ceiling. From there, the two non-insulated exhaust pipes merge into one, and are led toward the wall to the room behind the gas chamber, where the pipe splits up into two again. Then it is led outside in a semi-circle equipped with two hand valves, and led back into the attic area, where it is merged again into one pipe, as can be seen in this photo taken in the attic of that building. Then that merged pipe is fed into the electric blower that drives the whole operation, here visible in another attic photo, and from there out the exhaust chimney, which exits the roof here.
"By the 1980s there had arisen a powerful movement among mainstream Holocaust scholars, Jewish organizations, and politicians in Europe and Canada to actually criminalize dissent regarding the popular version of the Holocaust. Whereas only the United States was insulated from such censorship attempts because of a constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech, it had been assumed by many that the rest of the countries of the Western world, while lacking such a free-speech guarantee, nonetheless supported the notion of intellectual freedom, i.e. the principle that no one should be persecuted by their government for the "crime" of writing or reading unpopular material."[17]
The word “genocide” was first used in 1944 by the Jewish Pole Raphael Lemkin in his book Axis Rule in Occupied Europe.[1] Lemkin stated in regard to his self-coined neologism “genocide”: “By ‘genocide’ we mean the destruction of a nation or of an ethnic group. This new word, coined by the author to denote an old practice in its modern expression, is made from the ancient Greek word genos (race, tribe) and the Latin cide (killing), thus corresponding in its formation to such words as tyrannicide, homocide [sic], infanticide, etc.”[2]
“The cremation of six bodies in the ovens of the mobile crematorium required 30 minutes, which meant that 864 bodies per day could be incinerated if the three ovens were in operation around the clock.”
This book should have been titled The Persecution of the European Jews, as very little space is devoted to the extermination part (not even the word Zyklon appears), and that part is also quite confusing. Gerlach uses the usual tricks employed by Holocaust historians: Cherry picking, suppression of evidence, omissions, falsifications. But he puts forth an interesting question:
Nyiszli moreover claims that the crematoria were located two kilometers from the Birkenau Camp, while in reality they were located inside the camp, and that the so-called Kanada warehouse barracks was not the Effektenlager (the camp warehouse containing the personal effects of the inmates), but, rather, a collection of rubbish which burned continuously!
Thank you for helping to preserve the memory of a Holocaust victim.
The reception accorded The Holocaust by Bullets and the honors bestowed upon its author are to be viewed against this background. Father Desbois’s exploitation of the rich Shoah vein has projected him from obscurity to become something of a celebrity and a protégé of powerful interests.
The reader may have noticed that words like Holocaust, extermination or destruction do not appear in the book’s title or even the chapters. This is supposed to be an all-encompassing work, including the Holocaust but not focusing too much on it. For Cesarani, even the word itself is out of date. In his own words “the term is arguably well past its sell-by date” (p. xxix). Revisionists would add “and not only that”.
VATICAN CITY, 2009 Jan. 30 – A Holocaust-denying bishop who was readmitted to the Catholic Church apologized Friday to Pope Benedict XVI for the "unnecessary distress and problems" caused by his “imprudent remarks”. He had told Swedish television that "historical evidence is hugely against six million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler.”[1]
Since, as has been amply proven, no facilities for mass extermination existed at the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp complex, it seems most likely that the Jews deported there from the Białystok district in 1942/1943 who were not registered in that camp continued on elsewhere, perhaps to camps in the region. This is fully congruent with the Korherr Report, since as mentioned the relevant figure of 170,642 deported to “the East” also included deportations from the Reich and the Protectorate into the Lublin district; accordingly “the East” is here to be understood as a more general designation of all territories east of the Reich (with the Białystok District) and the Protectorate, including the General Government.[50]
[13] Stäglich, Wilhelm, Auschwitz: A Judge Looks at the Evidence, Institute for Historical Review, 1990, pp. vii-viii, 292.
We repeat the statement of Judge Matia. He claims that the Sobibor guards “drove [the Jews] into gas chambers where they were murdered by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide.” Notice that Matia’s wording is vague and imprecise; he failed to mention the exact identity of the murder weapon. Matia did not mention the exact nature of the “murder engine” that generated the carbon monoxide, because if he did, he would have involved himself in another dilemma that casts serious doubt on the traditional Sobibor extermination story. The reader is reminded that this is no “trivial inconsistency” in the testimony. In any murder investigation, the exact nature of the murder weapon is very important.
This year marks the tenth anniversary of the David Irving - Deborah Lipstadt libel trial. Irving sued Lipstadt and Penguin Books for having called him a "Holocaust Denier" as part of what he claimed was a campaign to ruin his reputation. In his opening statement to the court, he complained that the label Holocaust Denier was a "verbal yellow star," designed to destroy him for being an enemy of what Norman Finkelstein has termed "The Holocaust Industry."
We don’t have possession of the documents in question, so we cannot subject them to a thorough examination to determine if they are genuine. But even if it is proven that Demjanjuk served as a guard at Sobibor, there is no credible evidence that he ever harmed a single person. Recently, a Canadian court ruled in a case similar to Demjanjuk’s that Ukrainian-born Wasyl Odynsky’s citizenship should not be revoked, even though he served at the German forced labor camp of Tranwiki. Odynsky served as a perimeter guard, and the Federal Court of Canada ruled there is no evidence he harmed a single person.[122] The same could be true for John Demjanjuk.
“IBM was exposed for collaborating with the Nazis and their concentration camps (the Cult has no borders).”
The words “where they are now being systematically put to death in gas chambers” were removed from the statement before it was published simultaneously in London and Washington.[13]
Nyiszli wrote about the aftermath of gassings at Birkenau:
Q: Do I understand you, Mr. Witness, that you appear in this Tribunal and present affidavits where you mention “resistance group” and “underground”, and you mean to tell this Tribunal that you don’t know what it means?
So the only witness the ESC relied upon and its reconstruction of the events which had preceded the “Russenaktion” was the late Ziereis, although the commission could easily have questioned some members of the former Kommandantur Staff of Sachsenhausen. At that time most of them were already in (British, not Soviet) custody, so they could have confirmed – or denied – Ziereis’s statement about the alleged meeting of the concentration camps commandants in July 1941. Significantly, no statements made by these SS officers in British custody have been published up to the present day.
By the end of 1942, on the exterminationist thesis, over 1.6 million Jews died in the six death camps alone. The overall death toll, from all causes, was allegedly more than 4 million. Two-thirds of the holocaust was complete.
The alleged Hitlerite gas chambers and the alleged genocide of the Jews form one and the same historical lie, which has permitted a gigantic political and financial swindle whose main beneficiaries are the state of Israel and international Zionism and whose main victims are the German people – but not their leaders – and the Palestinian people in their entirety.
Volckmer indicates the importance of Holocaust-propaganda in this guilt when, on the penultimate page, she refers to Auschwitz as:
They too, failed to provide a convincing explanation as to why Leuchter’s published conclusions with respect to Auschwitz were erroneous or somehow disqualify him from practicing his profession in the United States.
Sherlock is broken into four sections.  The first contains the entirety of the text of the original Sherlock.   For those unfamiliar with it, Sherlock considers all of the primary texts regarding the gas chambers and demonstrates how, as Princeton Professor Arno Mayer put it, “sources for the study of the gas chambers are at once rare and unreliable.”  Crowell also takes an important look at the gassing literature that preceded the Second World War.  It is here among his considerations of H.G. Wells, Sax Rohmer, E.R. Burroughs and others that he recounts a tale of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s most famous literary creation, Sherlock Holmes.   While Crowell draws an analogy from Doyle’s short story “The Adventure of the Retired Colourman” to a Holocaust account by Alexander Wirth, this is not the primary point of the Sherlock association.
LAMMERS: Yes, I know a great deal about that. The final solution of the Jewish question became known to me for the first time in 1942. That is when I heard that the Führer supposedly, through Göring, had given an order to the SS Obergruppenführer Heydrich to achieve a solution of the Jewish question. I did not know the exact contents of that order and consequently, since this did not come within my jurisdiction, at the beginning I took a negative attitude, but then as I wanted to know something I, of course, had to contact Himmler. I asked him what was really meant by the idea of the final solution of the Jewish question. Himmler replied that he had received the order from the Führer to bring about the final solution of the Jewish problem – or rather Heydrich and his successor had that order – and that the main point of the order was that the Jews were to be evacuated from Germany. With that statement I was satisfied for the time and waited for further developments, since I assumed that I would now in some way – I really had no jurisdiction here – I would obtain some information from Heydrich or his successor, Kaltenbrunner. Since nothing did come I wanted to inform myself about this, and back in 1942 I announced a report to the Führer, whereupon the Führer told me that it was true that he had given Himmler the order for evacuation but that he did not want any further discussion about this Jewish question during the war. […]
The article “How to increase the number of Holocaust deaths”[1] incontrovertibly exposes real and serious problems, but those are neither the only ones, nor the most important.
English sources always translate Hitler’s wording as wanting to “exterminate,” “destroy,” or “annihilate” the Jews; but this is another deception. None of his actual words demands mass killing—or even any killing at all. If the Jews have been driven out of Germany, they have indeed been ‘exterminated’ (lit. ‘driven beyond the border’). If their control over the economy has been terminated, their power has indeed been ‘annihilated,’ or ‘reduced to nothing.’ If Jewish society has been removed, it may rightly be said to have been ‘destroyed’ (lit. ‘un-built’ or ‘deconstructed’). Hitler’s tough talk was never any different than that of any world leader when confronting a mortal enemy. President Obama often speaks of “destroying” the “cancer” of the Islamic State, but no one accuses him of attempted genocide.
F.D.R.’s instructions to Bullitt were to send this word along to “Joe” and “Tony,” meaning Ambassadors Kennedy, in London, and Biddle, in Warsaw, respectively. F.D.R. wanted Daladier, Chamberlain and Josef Beck to know of these instructions to Bullitt. Bullitt merely sent his note from F.D.R. to Kennedy in the diplomatic pouch from Paris. Kennedy followed Bullitt’s idea and forwarded it to Biddle. When the Nazis grabbed Warsaw and Beck disappeared, they must have come into possession of the F.D.R. note. The man who wrote the report I sent you saw it in Berlin in October, 1939.[17]
The Israeli and Polish archeologists who excavated Sobibor made this claim about the Sobibor “gas chambers.”: “When the gas chambers were filled with victims, the gas was vented into the rooms asphyxiated the victims in about 20-30 minutes.”[45] They provide no source for this claim.
“the testimonies referred to above, however, can be supported – as demonstrated above – by references [wzmiankami] contained in the documents of the various groups of the camp’s files which, although certainly rare, are at once immensely important. Only together, when analyzed in conjunction, these documents and the testimonies of the former detainees permit to reconstruct the course of events and to understand the magnitude of the crimes committed at Auschwitz.” (pp. 73f.)
It is painstaking work, uncovering “a tragedy of vast dimensions that has been very little researched,” Ms. Berger said at the Krakow conference. Yet, she noted, the work has huge significance, given that “more Jews were killed by shooting in Ukraine” — an estimated 1.5 million — “than murdered in Auschwitz in the crematoria.”
In another of Lipstadt’s classroom points she asserts that any allegation that Judaic casualty figures are exaggerated constitutes “denial.” But unknown to the movie audience, she is herself on record saying that the high casualty figure for German victims of the Allied firebombing of the city of Dresden is exaggerated. The Talmudic double standard makes it perfectly respectable for her to lay a charge of exaggeration against the history of the Dresden bombing. Ordinary mortals do so with regard to Auschwitz at the risk of forfeiting their employment and reputation.
Q. Which gas was used to operate these [10-cubic-meter delousing] gas chambers?
With each passing year, the number of countries that outlawed Holocaust revisionism grew. France's repressive Loi Gayssot was enacted on July 13, 1990. The Swiss voted their anti-revisionist law into effect in September, 1994. Germany would join suit in the autumn of 1994 making it a criminal offense to "deny or trivialize any act committed under National Socialist rule."[19] Belgium would pass their Negationism Law in March, 1995. Other countries were soon to follow. As the governments of Europe enacted what would amount to "thoughtcrimes" legislation against revisionists at the request of various Jewish activist organizations, revisionists were further driven underground.[20] This drive to outlaw revisionism had the side effect of even greater use of pseudonyms in the 1990s and the years that followed.
“Air is drawn in via a pipeline of 400 mm diameter extending over the roof, and is then led through a steam-operated heat exchanger. The pipeline is insulated behind the heat exchanger. It is split into two lines by means of a y-branch pipe, and leads with two pipes of 200 mm diameter into the room adjoining the gas chamber. There the airflow can be adjusted with a valve each. Both these and the other two valves of the ventilation system are made of massive cast iron and carry a $ sign in a circle. Such valves are common in gas pipelines but not in ventilation systems.
The allegation that Leuchter took “great chunks” out of the walls does not invalidate the chemical aspects of his report, nor of the comparison with the delousing chambers, from which he took “chunks” of similar size. Dr. James Roth testified at the 1988 Ernst Zündel trial that he received samples from Fred Leuchter in his capacity as an analytical chemist at Alpha Analytical Laboratories. The purpose of the tests was to determine the total iron and cyanide content in the samples. Roth said that the Prussian blue produced by a reaction of the iron with the hydrogen cyanide could penetrate deeply in porous materials such as brick and mortar.[7] Thus, according to Roth’s testimony at the Ernst Zündel trial, the fact that Leuchter took “great chunks” out of the walls did not invalidate the chemical aspects of his report.
This last point deserves elaboration. With all crematoria chugging along at full capacity, and some 15 or 20 open pit fires burning round the clock, the camp would have been awash in smoke—smoke easily visible from the air. Here we are in luck: the Allies snapped two air photos of Auschwitz during the Hungarian operation, and the Germans took another of their own. Thus we have three high-quality photos to analyze.[69] What do they show?
Ludwig used to call me every few weeks from Munich. After his phone calls stopped and he did not reply to my mails, my wife and I became alarmed and contacted one of his friends who informed us that Ludwig, who wore a cardiac pacemaker and whose physical health had been deteriorating for some time, had been found dead in his flat. According to the forensic experts, his death had probably occurred on 20 January. He was buried in Munich.
In his brief letter, Walter Lüftl wrote about bringing new converts to Holocaust revisionism. These new converts may only be able to survive in the 'catacombs.' If so, then why not? Revisionists may be forced underground into the 'catacombs' for the time being as a way to carry on our work and to fight for the freedom of those in European prison cells. As we consider the early persecution of Christians and the martyrs who perished in prison cells and for the amusement of Roman rulers in the bloody coliseum, we should also recall that Rome was unable to eliminate Christianity. The apostle John, no stranger to persecution, wrote in his gospel, "the truth will set you free."[32] Revisionists will only be set free by the truth. Acceptance and understanding of the truth of the Holocaust will result in the repeal of Europe's anti-revisionist laws. The elimination of these hateful laws which strike at the means for one to be fully human will usher in a new time of freedom and a greater understanding among nations. These goals are well-worth the struggle. They warrant going underground for the time being, for they forecast our ultimate emergence from the dark of the 'catacombs' into the light and the mainstream of society and contemporary historical inquiry.
The desire to provide another refutation of what Dunphy calls “Holocaust denial” also figured in his decision to write this book. He states that he felt compelled to write his book upon learning about the book Innocent at Dachau. Dunphy, whose father served in the U.S. Army during World War II, says that researching and writing this book allowed him to see the war through his father’s eyes.[2]
I could name a long list of personalities and media voices that express what they think of anyone who attacks that foundation. I will spare us that list because everyone knows what the overwhelming majority of the populace in Germany and elsewhere thinks of those who are said to deny Auschwitz or the Holocaust in its entirety. Many people think that such persons have the same moral standing as pedophiles. One can hardly sink lower than that.
In the March 19 entry we find the first occurrence of another troublesome word, ‘liquidation’. It proves to be rather popular, appearing in eight different entries. The troublesome part is that, in many cases, it means something other than killing. Goebbels speaks of liquidating the “Jewish danger” (30 May 1942) and of liquidating Jewish marriages (6 December 1942). The word ‘liquidation’ means, primarily, ‘to make fluid.’ And this in fact is a fairly apt description of the deportation process: a large, entrenched Jewish community who had to be uprooted, made liquid, and then to flow out across the borders. Nothing in this entails killing. Nor at the time, in the 1940s, did the word necessarily mean murder. An article in the London Times had this to say: “The rest of the Jews in the General Government…would be liquidated, which means either transported eastward in cattle trucks to an unknown destination, or killed where they stood” (4 December 1942; p. 3). Holocaust survivor Thomas Buergenthal (2009: 49) writes of his experience in the Kielce ghetto: “The ghetto was being liquidated or, in the words bellowing out of the loudspeakers, Ausseidlung! Ausseidlung! (‘Evacuation! Evacuation!’).” And later he comments, “After the liquidation of the labor camp…” (p. 56). Clearly the word means, and meant, something other than killing.
Sir Oliver Lyttelton, the British minister of productions in Churchill’s cabinet, confirmed that the United States was not forced into war. Speaking before the American Chamber of Commerce in London in 1944, Lyttelton stated: “Japan was provoked into attacking the Americans at Pearl Harbor….It is a travesty of history to ever say America was forced into war.”[23]
According to Holocaust lore, in June 1942 Heinrich Himmler ordered SS-Sturmbannführer Paul Blobel to erase the traces of the massacres in the East. Being his master’s obedient servant, Blobel formed a special kommando with the code designation 1005. This Kommando had to dig up the mass graves and to remove the corpses. Blobel and his men travelled to all occupied territories to fulfill their ghastly task.
It is also certain that the credibility of the Holocaust has been damaged by the publicity given to the drastically reduced estimate of non-Jewish deaths in concentration camps, from 5 million to less than half a million. If it is acceptable to repudiate the 5 million then why is it not acceptable to question the 6 million?
The great Dutch philosopher Spinoza wrote books about just law. Holland is a nation that has traditionally cared passionately about individual liberties, has no Holocaust Denial ban in its law and has only about half the fraction of its population in jail as compared to that in the UK. Let’s have a quote from Spinoza that might be engraved on the walls of police stations:
This brothel was, on the contrary, intended exclusively for inmates. A report of the Lagerarzt (camp physician) of Auschwitz Concentration Camp dated 16 December 1943 states in this regard:
For Deborah Lipstadt, the term “denial” has an even stronger and more sinister meaning.  It does not simply mean, “to declare not to be true” nor is it a psychological defense mechanism. Lipstadt charges that “denial” involves camouflaging true goals.  For Lipstadt “Holocaust deniers” are those who use the Holocaust story to advance some ideological or political agenda while hiding the fact that they are secretly fascists and anti-Semites.
The Germans of the Third Reich wanted to extirpate the Jews from Europe but not to exterminate them. They sought “a definitive — or final — territorial solution of the Jewish question” and not a “final solution” in the sense of any physical suppression (to want a “final solution of unemployment” is not to desire the death of the unemployed). The Germans had concentration camps but not “extermination camps” (an expression forged by Allied propaganda). They used disinfection gas chambers operating notably with an insecticide called Zyklon-B (the active ingredient of which was hydrogen cyanide) but never had any homicidal gas chambers or homicidal gas vans. They used  crematory ovens to incinerate corpses and not to throw living beings into them. After the war, the photographs purportedly exposing “Nazi atrocities” showed us camp inmates who were either sick, dying or dead, but not killed. What with the Allies’ blockade and their “area” bombing of Germany, and the apocalypse experienced by the latter towards the end of a nearly six-year long conflict, famine and epidemics, notably of typhus, had ravaged the country and, in particular, the camps in the western regions, overwhelmed by the arrivals en masse of detainees evacuated from the camps in the East, and thus severely lacking in food, medicine and the Zyklon-B needed for protection against typhus.
Incredibly, Venezia is unaware of the story of the small exterior chimneys for the introduction of Zyklon B into the gas chamber, since he speaks of a simple "trapdoor", obviously installed on the roof of the area, which had a concrete cover. This detail originates from the deposition of H. Tauber[161]. And, mentioning "the trapdoor", he reveals that he does not even know that the supposed openings for the Zyklon B in Leichenkeller1 of Crematoria II and III should have been four in number.
It was during this trial that Irving displayed a willingness to revise not only the work of other historians, but his own as well. Citing his review of the papers of Adolf Eichmann, he testified, “I said that then based on my knowledge at the time, but by 1991 when I came across the Eichmann papers, I wasn't saying that anymore and I wouldn't say that now.” And this was by no means the first time. Under rather less duress, he removed from the second edition of his bestseller Hitler’s War all references in the prior edition to gas chambers, so impressed was he by the report and testimony of Fred Leuchter, at one time acknowledged as America’s foremost supplier of execution hardware, who announced his conclusion that the Germans did not have or use homicidal gas chambers during World War Two.
The Holocaust, which is remembered ritually through the observance of Holocaust Remembrance Day, is a major means of creating solidarity among Jews. While some Jewish communities experience conflicts among Orthodox, Conservative, and Reform Jews, they set aside their differences and join together to remember the so-called Holocaust. Any truth in Judaism’s slogan of “Jews Are One” manifests itself ritually on Holocaust Remembrance Day.[33]
In 1977, during a visit to New York and Cape May, I recounted the story of the trainload of dying German prisoners to two former US officers. They had both been stationed in Heidelberg shortly after the war and they knew all about it. They agreed that the cattle cars were filled with captured German soldiers who were infected with typhus and dysentery. They were in fact unwitting extras in a movie being made by Alfred Hitchcock, the Hollywood horror-film specialist. He had been awarded a contract to make a movie about concentration camps for the Nuremberg tribunal. At night the dead prisoners would be unloaded at Buchenwald, Dachau and other concentration camps by those who were still alive. Hitchcock would then film them, depicting the heaps of corpses as victims of German atrocities. A large number of corpses were dumped at Buchenwald at night, and next day the citizens of Weimar were forced to walk past the heaps of rotting corpses and smell the sickening stench. Some of them actually believed the American propaganda, that the corpses had been concentration-camp inmates. It was all filmed as part of Hitchcock's movie. Afterwards the corpses were shoved into mass graves in the vicinity. That too was part of the script. This is the explanation that the two former officers of the US Army gave me concerning the trainload of dying German prisoners that I witnessed on June 16, 1945.
In the midst of these controversies, European Union Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan, who is himself Jewish, came down hard on the suggestion that “Holocaust denial” should constitute a criminal offense throughout Europe. During the course of a speech addressed to Jewish community leaders, foreign diplomats and members of Parliament, Brittan warned that such laws represented a dangerous threat to civil liberties:
Nevertheless, this is contradicted by The Central Commission for Investigation of German Crimes in Poland, where they “found” something different in 1946-7, about the operation of the Sobibor “gas chambers.” They wrote: “According to the statements of witnesses it did not take more than some 15 minutes to kill a group of about 500 persons.” They admit that their data is imprecise because none of their witnesses were actually employed in the “gas chamber” area.[46 ]
“After a brief interchange, Patton ordered every officer, who had participated in the Dachau investigation to report to his office. He also demanded that they bring every document and photograph which they had collected. He then asked if they had placed every scrap of evidence in his hands. When assured that nothing had been withheld, he dumped all the papers into a metal wastebasket, asked for a cigarette lighter and personally applied the flame to the documents. The charges against Lieutenant Bushyhead had been dismissed. But, of greater importance, with this act, the written records of the executions at Dachau were stricken forever from the annals of military history. The incident would remain alive only in the minds of men, and here it was buried for more than 40 years. Officially, the hour of the Avenger had never occurred.”
In April 1988, during the second Zündel trial in Toronto, David Irving learned that an American execution technologist, Fred Leuchter, who had been contacted by Ernst Zündel’s advisor Robert Faurisson, had flown to Poland with a small group of helpers in order to examine the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz I, Auschwitz-Birkenau and Majdanek. Upon his return, Leuchter had written a report in which he concluded that these rooms could not have been used as gas chambers for technical reasons. More importantly, Leuchter and his team had taken samples from the walls inside the alleged gas chambers of Auschwitz I and Birkenau where, according to official historiography, huge numbers of Jews had been killed with Hydrogen Cyanide gas (Zyklon B). The samples were subsequently analyzed in an American laboratory. The tests revealed either no detection of traces of cyanide or extremely low levels, while a control sample taken from Delousing Facility No. 1 at Birkenau contained an exceedingly high percentage of cyanide.[3]
Illustration 2: Gas-tight steel door, type “air-raid shelter”, offered to the Auschwitz Camp, but never delivered.
But the "chimney room" was the "Müllverbrennungsraum", the room housing the trash incinerator (Müllverbrennungsofen) and the big chimney, which was not square, by the way, but rectangular (it measured approximately 4 x 2.5 m); it was obviously not a "little room", because it measured 10 x 8 m, in addition to which it had 4 windows and 2 small windows. On the other side of the chimney, towards the oven room, separated by a wall, were three small square rooms. The central room, in Crematorium II, was originally intended to house one of the three counterflow induced-draft installations (Saugzuganlagen), which were not installed in Crematorium III; the two side rooms, each one with a window, was referred to as the "Motorraum" (motor room). Only the room in the middle had "in the centre, the large conduit from the brick chimney", but this was invisible, on the other side of the room, in the "Müllverbrennungsraum", in addition to which it did not have any window. Moreover these three rooms were located on the level of the oven room, so that one could not "go up" into any of these. In short, the room described by Venezia did not exist.
In the meantime I once more turned to Herr Himmler. He was of the opinion that it was necessary to discuss this question since a number of problems would have to be solved, particularly since the intention of achieving a final solution of the Jewish question would probably extend to persons of mixed blood, first grade, and would also extend to the so-called “privileged” marriages, that is to say, marriages where only one party was Aryan whereas the other party was Jewish. The Führer stated once more that he did not wish to have a report on it but that he had no objections to consultation on these problems. That some evacuations had taken place in the meantime had become known to me. At that time, at any rate, not the slightest thing was known, about the killing of Jews; if crass individual cases came up, I always addressed myself to Himmler and he was always very willing to settle these individual cases. Finally, however, in 1943, rumors cropped up that Jews were being killed. I had no jurisdiction in this field; it was merely that I occasionally received complaints and on the basis of these complaints I investigated the rumors. But, as far as I could tell, at any rate, these rumors always proved to be only rumors. Every one said he had heard it from somebody else and nobody wanted to make a definite statement. I am, in fact, of the opinion that these rumors were based mostly on foreign broadcasts and that the people just did not want to say from where they had the information. That caused me once more to undertake an investigation of this matter. First of all, since I, for my part, could not initiate investigations of matters under Himmler’s jurisdiction, I addressed myself to Himmler once again. Himmler denied any legal killings and told me, with reference to the order from the Führer, that it was his duty to evacuate the Jews and that during such evacuations, which also involved old and sick people, of course there were cases of death, there were accidents, there were attacks by enemy aircraft. He added too, that there were revolts, which of course he had to suppress severely and with bloodshed, as a warning. For the rest, he said that these people were being accommodated in camps in the East. He brought out a lot of pictures and albums and showed me the work that was being done in these camps by the Jews and how they worked for the war needs, the shoemakers shops, tailors shops, and so forth. He told me:
By contrast, the genocide of European Jewry is not well documented. No order has ever been found authorizing the mass murder of Europe’s Jews. The German defendants at the main Nuremberg trial all stated they knew nothing about the so-called Holocaust. The Holocaust story absurdly states that the first gas chambers were built at Auschwitz using Zyklon B by SS personnel with no engineering experience. None of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau, and Majdanek or the claimed diesel gas chambers at the Aktion Reinhardt camps of Treblinka, Belzec, and Sobibor could possibly have been used for mass murder. The alleged genocide of Jews was also not known by the German public during the war. The eyewitness testimony to the so-called Holocaust has consistently proven to be extremely unreliable. Finally, the large number of Jewish survivors at the end of the war makes impossible a program of genocide against European Jewry.
The attempt to deny the Holocaust enlists a basic strategy of distortion. Truth is mixed with absolute lies, confusing readers who are unfamiliar with the tactics of the deniers. Half-truths and story segments, which conveniently avoid critical information, leave the listener with a distorted impression of what really happened. 5
Much of Buergenthal’s work is autobiographical, and only a few chapters relate directly to the Holocaust. Prior to his time at Auschwitz-Birkenau, a brief point of interest appears in his discussion of the Kielce ghetto. On two different occasions (pages 49 and 56) he speaks of the “liquidation” of the ghetto. Readers will likely be aware that traditionalists read this word as meaning ‘mass murder’ or ‘extermination.’ Perhaps the most notorious occurrence was in Goebbels’ diary entry of March 27, 1942, in which he wrote that “60 percent [of the Jews in the General Government] will have to be liquidated.” Rudolf and other revisionists have responded that ‘liquidation’ meant simply ‘elimination or removal’, not mass murder. Buergenthal evidently agrees. He writes, “The ghetto was being liquidated, or, in the words bellowing out of the loudspeakers, “Ausseidlung! Ausseidlung!” (“Evacuation! Evacuation!).” And somewhat later: “After the liquidation of the labor camp, we were divided into two groups…” Obviously, not murder.
A divided Germany is a now a thing of the past, but the Holocaust mythology still remains an ideological cornerstone of the present German government. Indeed, in April 1999, the German Federal Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer stated: “All democracies have a basis, a cornerstone. For France it is 1789, for Germany it is Auschwitz.”[41] In the German daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Patrick Bahners put forth a founding belief of the present German government. If one “denies the murder of the Jews, he repudiates the legitimacy of the Federal Republic.”[42]
During the action against political prisoners in 1944 the main accomplices of the special commission were the following prisoners: The camp elder Samuel Kühnke, the camp elder Kuert Beier, the foreman Kokoschinsky. The mass murders in the crematorium were carried out either by shooting in the neck or in the gas chamber.”
The government of the former West Germany believed it attained the imprint of legitimacy from numerous Holocaust trials. A historian of Jewish-German relations (who undoubtedly would condemn my views in this essay), Jeffrey Herf, noted: “The Auschwitz trial conducted in Frankfurt-am-Main in 1964, as well as trials of those who had participated in murders in the Einsatzgruppen and at the extermination camps in Belzec, Treblinka, Sobibor, Chelmo, and Maidanek, offered further details to the West German public about the Holocaust and the death camps in Poland.”[39] In a political culture such as this, prosecutors could advance their careers by aggressively pursuing alleged Nazi war criminals.[40]
In 1999, just months before the Lipstadt-Irving trial began the Luftwaffe bombed Yugoslavia on the pretext that Germany was overcoming its evil past and becoming a "normal nation" (i.e., an aggressive one) by attacking a Serbian Hitler (Slobodan Milosevic) who was allegedly committing genocide, though the fact of the matter was that there were no refugees during the last five months of peace and the internally displaced persons fleeing the three-way ethnic conflict numbered only a few thousand. But in the cartoon-like morality play shown on Western T.V., the Serbs were cast as Oriental barbarians, while the Croats and Muslims starred as their perpetually innocent victims.
As for any who at the present late time might wish to step forward and offer their own unvarnished, if faded, recollections of what really happened, the threat of becoming an accused (nonagenarian) is very much alive, as cases like that of John Demjanjuk demonstrate so tragically and incredibly. Thus does censorship of “Holocaust denial” live on forever in, among others, precisely the form it assumed upon the fall of the Third Reich.
I’m sick of laughing at the farcical version of the Holocaust story. It’s time that tragic event was given the honest, factual remembrance it deserves and to stop imprisoning those who seek to tell the true story. It’s time to turn this tragicomedy into a bona fide history lesson.
[2] Cox, Cyrus, Auschwitz—Forensically Examined, Uckfield, UK: Castle Hill Publishers, 2019, pp. 41, 53.
‘The so-called Trawniki Card was provided to the Israelis by Soviet authorities. It was given to the Federal Criminal Police in Wiesbaden in January 1987 so that forensic experts could determine if it were genuine. The Germans concluded that at first sight the document contained a series of distinctive features that placed some doubt over its authenticity. The head of the unit, Dr Louis-Ferdinand Werner, recorded in a memo that: (1) The card did not have – as was customary – a date of issue; (2) The rank of the issuing officer, SS Haupsturmfuhrer (Captain) Streibel was printed on the card and not entered by hand or by typewriter, as was customary because ranks would change rapidly; (3) The photograph of Demjanjuk’s head had been mounted to the neck with two different types of glue; (4) A quite unusual typeface (for that period) was used; and (5) The SS-runes shown on the card had been drawn by hand before being copied by the printer.
About when did the construction period of the Treblinka camp commence? To begin with, the source offered by Arad for the late April/early May 1942 inspection tour of the future camp area is the memoirs of the Treblinka station master Franziszek Zabecki. Arad also quotes another piece of testimony of importance in this regard, namely that of Erwin Herman Lambert the alleged architect of the Aktion Reinhardt gas chamber buildings:[17]
The upshot of my argument is this. It is actually a potent testimonial in favor of Holocaust revisionism that some of the major promoters of the traditional view of the Holocaust like Deborah Lipstadt refuse to debate. It seems to be a tacit admission by its most bitter opponents that Holocaust revisionism has more credibility than they care to publicly admit.
The I.G. Farben trial ended on May 12, 1948 after an exhausting 152 trial days. There had been 189 witnesses, and the transcript was almost 16,000 pages long. In addition to 6,000 documents and 2,800 affidavits introduced into evidence, there had been a multitude of briefs, motions, rulings and other legal instruments incidental to the proceeding.[13]
On 16 February 1942 Martin Luther, official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, sent a teletype informing the German ambassador at Bratislava (Pressburg) that “in the framework of the provisions for the Final Solution of the Jewish question in Europe” (im Zuge der Massnahmen zur Endlösung der europäischen Judenfrage), the government of the Reich was prepared to transfer immediately “20,000 young, strong Slovakian Jews” (20 000 junge kräftige slowakische Juden) to the East (nach den Osten), where there was a need for manpower (wo Arbeitseinsatzbedarf besteht)[64]. Approximately 10,000 Jews were sent to Auschwitz.
Nyiszli claims that he reached Birkenau by train with a trainload of Jews deported from Hungary, in May of 1944 – May 29th, to be exact – as shown by the registration number A-8450, with which he was tattooed on that same day upon his arrival at the camp. After spending a few days in Sector BIIf of Birkenau, on 3 or 5 June (his chronology is contradictory), he was assigned as physician to Sonderkommando of the crematoria, under Dr. Mengele’s direct supervision, where he remained until January 1945. But in his sworn statement dated 8 October 1947,[50] Nyiszli asserts that he reached Auschwitz on 19 May 1944 and that he was immediately transferred to the “Buna-Monowitz” camp, where he remained between 20 May and 5 June. These two versions of his arrival at Auschwitz stand in total mutual contradiction. But this is nothing compared to the wave of contradictions, absurdities, historical falsifications and various impostures to be found in his work, which was published in Italian under the title Medico ad Auschwitz and later under a different title: Sopravvissuto a Mengele:[51] in my cursory study dedicated to this self-proclaimed “eyewitness”, I listed 120 of them.[52]
It is precisely this logic which appears to motivate those individuals who argue for legal remedies to address the issue of ‘Holocaust denial.’ The “error” of “denying the Holocaust” is invariably defined as a ‘crime’ which ‘disturbs the public peace,’ because “deniers” are perceived as engendering ideological or racial fanaticism. That the “Holocaust” is not denied, but redefined according to the evidence or how it may be variously interpreted and applied, offers no legal loophole for those deemed to have transgressed the substance of the law. Furthermore, it is not ‘society’ in general which is disturbed, but those who seek to impose their beliefs on others by suppressing opinions with which they are at variance. It is by these means that “deniers” are deemed “unworthy of toleration.”
“At the suggestion of the British Government which says there is insufﬁcient evidence to justify the statement regarding execution in gas chambers, it has been agreed to eliminate the last phrase.”
Ernst Zündel’s appeal was rejected by the German Federal Court in Mannheim on September 12, 2007. The appeals court upheld trial judge Ulrich Meinerzhagen, who in rendering his judgment declared, “It is of absolutely no relevance whether the Holocaust happened or not. Denying it is a punishable offense. That is the only thing that matters to the court.”
Little is known about the supply of 1,155 kg of Zyklon B by the company “Azot” of Jaworzno. Piper merely repeats what the investigating judge Jan Sehn wrote, who in turn evidently quoted the indictment against Höss. In a footnote, Sehn stated that the chemical plants at Jaworzno “delivered a total of 1,155 kg of Zyklon to Auschwitz between 3 August 1943 and 24  April 1944” (Sehn 1956, Note 2, p. 109). Further details of these supplies are unknown. It is unlikely, however, that they had not passed through the Tesch company.
It is impossible not to see the evidence that those unable to work who were sent to Treblinka weren’t gassed but sent further east to Belarus (where, incidentally, many transports of Jews arrived directly from Germany and Austria, even from Theresienstadt).
The Sonderkommandos at Auschwitz/Birkenau would have had to wear something similar to Scott air-packs to remove the dead bodies from the homicidal gas chambers. There is simply no way around it. Otherwise, the alleged homicidal gassing operations would not have worked, and Tauber would not have lived to tell his story.
Some time ago, we read (olo-truffa.myblog.it/archive/2010/12/24/060-olocau-to-la-fabbrica-dei-morti-come-certificare-il-nume.html) about the existence of a French site (original French source, verified on 20 April 2013: http://www.yadvashem-france.org/documents/document/1/, same source, for this document alone, http://www.yadvashem-france.org/medias/documents/dafed1a-2011.pdf)(http://blogyadvashemfr.blogspot.it/2010/06/p-235-feuilles-de-temoignages-et.html, updated on 14.11.13) where a form intended to facilitate the reporting of "victims" who were still unknown to the administration of the Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum in Jerusalem was online and could be downloaded.
Wiesel also mentions in Night that he had surgery on an infected foot in January 1945. The German authorities at Birkenau gave Wiesel and other hospital patients unfit to travel the option to remain in the camp. Wiesel and his father decided to evacuate Birkenau and travel to Buchenwald with the Germans rather than be liberated by the Russian army.[14] If Birkenau had been a place of mass exterminations, why would Wiesel choose to travel with his supposed killers? Also, why would the German authorities at Birkenau leave behind thousands of witnesses to their genocide if a policy of genocide had actually taken place at Birkenau?
In this perspective, from the numerical point of view, the issue would be perfectly credible. Based on the Kalendarium of Danuta Czech,[75] from March 14, 1943 (first “gassing” in the Crematorium II) to the end of the year, the 47 “gassings” numerically more important would have been distributed like this:
On Wednesday, 8 February, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D, NY), who claims to have lost many relatives in the Holocaust, said to Ha'aretz:
“For the two gas chambers and for the corridor, representing a volume of 480 m3 almost identical to the one in Morgue I of Crematoria II and III, Schultze foresaw an exhaust blower  of the same power: a pump [soufflerie: air-blower] Type 450 with a 3.5 HP motor, able to exhaust 8,000 m3 per hour”.
[28] Goldhagen, Daniel Jonah, Worse Than War: Genocide, Eliminationism, and the Ongoing Assault on Humanity, New York: Public Affairs, 2009, p. 123.
That certainly holds true for those who childishly and ignorantly believe showers were gas chambers.
Dr. Charles P. Larson, an American forensic pathologist, performed autopsies at Dachau and some of its sub-camps which confirm that most inmates at Dachau died of natural causes. Dr. Larson performed about 25 autopsies a day for 10 days at Dachau and superficially examined another 300 to 1,000 bodies. He autopsied only those bodies that appeared to be questionable. Dr. Larson wrote in regard to these autopsies at Dachau:[9]
Fig. 2: Interior northwest room in the Zyklon B disinfestation wing of BW 5a in the Birkenau camp\. (© 1991 Karl Philipp)
Any plans to transport Jews to the East by water never even came close to realization. In the autumn of 1941 time was too short, then the rivers froze over, and before they thawed out in 1942, transportation and economic authorities had already abandoned the projects to extend the Dnieper-Bug Canal. The SS apparently did not give up the idea of an extensive extermination camp in Mogilev until 1942, when the crematoria intended for Mogilev were delivered to Auschwitz. Transportation of Jews across the Black Sea and upstream to Kiev or Mogilev was practically impossible before April 1943, but by then the German retreat from the Ukraine as already under way.
"Underneath a garden, there are two endless basement rooms: one is meant for undressing, the other is a death chamber. People enter naked and when it is filled with about 3,000 people, it is closed and they are gassed." (Deutsche Welle, 9 October 2017)
What, in fact, do the experts have to say about all this? Here’s what famed Holocaust researcher Martin Gilbert—Sir Martin Gilbert—said: “The deliberate attempt to destroy systematically all of Europe’s Jews [peaked in 1942], during which hundreds of thousands of Jews were being gassed every day at Belzec, Chelmno, Sobibor, and Treblinka” (1981: 26). Wait—can that be correct? Hundreds of thousands gassed—every day? Sir Martin is a smart man. Surely he doesn’t make loose, off-the-cuff declarations. Surely he knows that it is impossible—impossible—to gas and burn “hundreds of thousands” in four camps, every day. Why, then, would he publish such an obvious falsehood? Why would he lie? Sir Martin is a self-proclaimed Zionist Jew. Surely he knows the folly of lying about the Jewish Holocaust. So—why would he lie? In whose interest is it to exaggerate such claims (or in whose interest was it—he made these claims prior to his knighthood)?
In comparison to the one-day boycott, the leaders of world Jewry had in August 1933 not only organized an international boycott of Germany, but declared themselves “at war.” Samuel Untermyer, after returning to the USA from a tour of Europe during which he attended the World Economic Conference at Amsterdam, which was organizing the international boycott, stated on Station WABC, carried by the press around the world, that this was a “holy war.” He referred to Jews in Germany being slaughtered, starved and annihilated, and “of terrors worse than death.” An “economic boycott against all German goods, shipping and services.” Untermyer claimed that there was an ongoing boycott of Jewish shops in Germany, that “hundreds” of Jewish shopkeepers were being paraded through the streets and jailed, “starving and torturing them in vile concentration camps.” Untermyer alluded for comparison to the phony atrocities in Belgium of which Germany had been accused during World War I. He aimed to revive the allegations. Aspects of his talk in 1933 read like a script for the atrocity stories that have continued unremittingly against Germany ever since. It seems as though the “atrocity propaganda” of World War I was being resurrected within the first year of Hitler’s chancellorship to instigate a “holy war.” Not only should German products be boycotted, but “you must refuse to deal with any merchant or shopkeeper who sells any German-made goods or who patronizes German ships or shipping.” Those Jews who continued to patronize German shops should have “their names heralded far and wide [as] …. traitors to their race.”114
By attacking Trump over this, they have called attention to an enormous change in the Holocaust, which provides obvious justification for questioning other elements of the story.
[xxvi] Tiedemann, Herbert, “Babi Yar: Critical Questions and Comments,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, pp. 524-525.
It was evident from the beginning that if we won the war these promises would be dead paper, and had I been an honest adviser of the Arabs I would have advised them to go home and not risk their lives fighting for such stuff: but I salved myself with the hope that, by leading these Arabs madly in the final victory I would establish them, with arms in their hands, in a position so assured (if not dominant) that expediency would counsel to the Great Powers a fair settlement of their claims. In other words, I presumed (seeing no other leader with the will and power) that I would survive the campaigns, and be able to defeat not merely the Turks on the battlefield, but my own country and its allies in the council-chamber…[12]
On many pages in Denying the Holocaust Lipstadt repeats her theme (as if repetition will prove its veracity):
In Deborah Lipstadt’s highly acclaimed screed, Denying the Holocaust, she charges that Barnes was anti-Semitic.[1] She also charges Barnes with twisting “information and misrepresent[ing] established historical fact.”[2] She claims that Barnes sought to exculpate Nazi Germany and even questions his standing as a historian.[3] The widely read (and highly inaccurate) on-line encyclopedia Wikipedia goes even further. The anti-revisionists who edit Wikipedia call Barnes a “Holocaust Denier” and a “Nazi Sympathizer.”[4]
In Germany, as mentioned, only a brief summarizing transcript of content is made in the County Courts. And why? Well, the reason for this brief summary lies in the fact that one can file for an appeal on the facts of the case against the verdict of a County Court. If the appeal is granted, the court of the second instance must take all evidence anew. See Section 328 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure. In order that the judges can shorten the proceedings in the second instance, they can consult the transcript of the County Court for what happened in the court of first instance. That can save them work.
Undated. Leon Poliakov, in a 1956 article later appended to some reprinted editions of Harvest of Hate (Breviaire de la haine), accuses fellow Holocaust historian Gerald Reitlinger of minimizing the number of Jewish victims:
Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, who was a highly intelligent and well-regarded physicist, showed his ignorance in this quote of the situation in postwar Germany. The Americans had already murdered every tenth German by the time he made this statement, primarily through mass starvation instead of the use of bullets.[22] Germany also never had a program of genocide against European Jewry as Carl Friedrich implied in this statement that it had.[23]
A. That the gas was used in concentration camps for disinfection.
Again, this is the fundamental deficiency of the book: we are confronted with errors or impossibilities, but the author does not say anything more about them even though he does seem to notice these deficiencies; at times, he says that there is something questionable about certain aspects, but then does not go ahead and ask the necessarily implied questions. Far from telling you what you always wanted to know about the camp, R. J. van Pelt has put together a repetitious mixture of facts and fiction; his book shows on what shaky foundations our present view of Auschwitz and Birkenau is anchored.
Entire cities and hundreds of villages in Israel were left empty and repopulated with new Jewish immigrants. The Jewish immigrants numbered 100,000 in April 1949, most of them survivors of the so-called Holocaust. The Palestinians lost everything they had and became destitute refugees, while the Jewish immigrants to Israel stole the Palestinians’ property and confiscated everything they needed.[9]
"Under appropriate supervision, in the course of the final solution the Jews are to be allocated for appropriate labor in the East\. [OMITTED: Able-bodied Jews, separated according to sex, will be taken in large work columns to these areas for work on roads], in the course of which action doubtless a large portion will be eliminated by natural causes. The possible final remnant will, since it will undoubtedly consist of the most resistant portion, have to be treated accordingly [OMITTED: because as a product of natural selection these would, if released, act as the kernel of a new Jewish resurgence (see the experience of history.)] (note 6 on p. 70).
It happened to be also on Holocaust Remembrance Day that Trump issued an executive order halting visas from certain mostly Muslim countries, called a “refugee ban,” which the mass media and several Jewish organizations attacked. Rachel Maddow on MSNBC declared that Trump's executive order ignored a moral obligation to accept refugees because of the Holocaust. Jewish Senator Charles Schumer gave a press conference wherein he shed tears while complaining about this executive order, provoking Trump to dub him Fake Tears Chuck. Of course Schumer eventually also chimed in with criticisms of Trump's statement on the Holocaust.
Aynat discusses in some detail the fact that, for the various resistance movements highly active inside and outside the camp, Auschwitz was virtually transparent, as information about what was going on inside the camp was frequently and easily reported to the various headquarters of the resistance. In other words: nothing could be kept a secret at Auschwitz. However, when analyzing the documents produced by the Polish government in exile regarding Auschwitz, it becomes clear that the sensational news of conveyor-belt mass murder in chemical slaughterhouses does not play a major role, and that the claims (not) made in these documents to a large degree undercut today’s mainstream narrative.[4] Aynat also discusses several wartime sources and documents pointing to the fact that Jews sent to Auschwitz were in some cases shipped further east.
This is followed by Höss’s signature, together with his rank and his former duty as the commander of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Camp.[32]
Van Pelt later attempted to develop this thesis with particular reference to Upper Silesia[2], but further research then documented the fact that this paradigm formed part of a much broader project, the “Generalplan Ost”, the “General Plan for the East”, which involved the camps of Birkenau, Lublin and Stutthof as mere manpower-collection camps, first of Soviet POWs, then of Jews. This new interpretation has been supported, in particular, by Jan Erik Schulte, author of an important article entitled “Vom Arbeits- zum Vernichtungslager. Die Entstehungsgeschichte von Auschwitz-Birkenau 1941/42” (From Labor Camps to Extermination Camps. History of the Origins of Auschwitz-Birkenau 1941-1942)[3], outlining, in particular, the early history of Birkenau camp, and the manner in which it fit into the “Generalplan Ost”.
“Little is known about the installation of the gas chambers at the Majdanek concentration camp, as there are practically no documents dealing with their construction and their operation. All we can say is that the gas chambers were based on the necessary modifications of the technology of disinfestation plants using hydrocyanic acid (hydrocyanic acid is the active ingredient of Zyklon B)” (p. 220)
Having ascertained that the Gypsies were not deported to Birkenau for purposes of extermination, the probative value and historical justification of the exterminationist hypothesis of their killing in gas chambers remains to be established.
A Briton who had served as a bishop in the traditionalist SSPX (Society of Saint Pius X) Catholic order in America for twenty years, had been asked to leave the USA after he made some remarks in 2002 about who was responsible for 9/11, and found himself relocated to Argentina. Then, when visiting Germany for the consecration of a new deacon he was interviewed by a Swedish TV company. That TV interview appears as an entrapment: “Bishop Williamson, are these your words?” he was suddenly asked, out of the blue, at the end of an interview on theological topics, and some comments he had made years earlier were quoted. The good Bishop managed to reply, with diamond-clear words of truth. He said, “I believe up to 300,000 Jews perished in Nazi concentration camps but not one of them by gassing in a gas chamber.”
The case of Minna Grossova is particularly significant: born in September 1874, she was deported to Treblinka on October 19, 1942. Although Treblinka was allegedly a “pure extermination camp” where even able-bodied Jews were gassed on arrival, Mrs. Grossova was not gassed, but transferred to Auschwitz – where, according to Holocaust lore, all Jews who were unable to work were immediately sent to the “gas chambers” without previous registration. Again, Mrs. Grossova was not gassed, but duly registered. She died on December 30, 1943.[55] From the point of view of the orthodox Holocaust story, the fate of this woman is absolutely inexplicable.
When the New York Times ran its snooty editorial on my ad, asserting it was trashy and barren of ideas, it nevertheless affirmed, "When there is free expression, even the ugliest ideas enrich democracy." How do ugly ideas enrich democracy? Professor Lipstadt found the answer at The Harvard Crimson and took the trouble to repeat it in her Denying the Holocaust.
Revisionists avoid implying. They justify their claims with documented facts. And as has been shown, most of the survivors are not deliberately dishonest. They are just victims of rumors and hearsay. But there have been deliberately dishonest individuals as well. A recent example is one Joseph Hirt[3] who gave public speeches in schools claiming to be an Auschwitz survivor. But his story turned out to be a complete fabrication. He was exposed by a history teacher who obviously would not agree with Behrens. Unfortunately, in science, logic comes before sentiment, whether we like it or not.
Let me add that the argument of anti-revisionist blogger S. Romanov (“The diesel issue is irrelevant”) reveals the queer mindset of this individual: There is neither documentary nor material evidence for the “Aktion Reinhardt” holocaust, and there are no trustworthy witnesses either (for what credit can be given to witnesses who “were simply mistaken” as to the murder weapon?), but nonetheless the Aktion Reinhardt holocaust is a proven and indisputable fact! In other words: The pillars on which the edifice once rested are gone, but the edifice is still standing, or rather hovering in the air! A major miracle!
Below, the first photo is that of the door of a genuine gas chamber for the execution of one person alone by hydrocyanic acid (HCN). This is an American gas chamber built according to the technique developed in the 1930s and ’40s. I examined it in September 1979 at Baltimore Penitentiary.5
“Holocaust-denier Carlo Mattogno claims in his essay, "Auschwitz: The End of a Legend" that the ventilation capacity is 4,800 ÷ 506 = 9.48 air exchanges per hour based upon what the SS planned to use originally.[58] Pressac claims that although the SS planned for only 4,800 cu m/hour, they eventually installed ventilation capable of 8000 cu m/hour. John Zimmerman has recently researched, 502-1-327, a Topf bill dated May 27, 1943, which may refer to Crematorium II (however, the first page in his copy is missing so he cannot yet be sure); it may indicate that the 4800 cu m/hour figure is correct”.
I hardly believe that the Germans coming into consideration would find themselves ready to do so. In any event, I am against it. Such self-evidences are not said so specifically, least of all in formal declaration. If our colleagues abroad would like to hear such declarations, documenting a distancing from the spirit of the Third Reich, they only need to take a look at the speeches that the presidents at German universities delivered at the inauguration of the new semester…[6]
However, since that date, a multitude of authors – historians, journalists – have certainly tried to defend the thesis of the supposed Nazi gas chambers’ existence and operation but none has been able to answer my request, repeated a hundred times: “Show me or draw me a Nazi gas chamber!” Just recently, a big book of quite scholarly appearance has been devoted to the alleged Nazi mass murders by poison gas, but in it there is not to be found a single representation of a gas chamber, not one technical illustration, not the shadow of a concrete reply to my challenge. It is the second edition, revised and corrected – released in 2012 –, of a book first published in 2011:Neue Studien zu nationalsozialistischen Massentötungen durch Giftgas / Historische Bedeutung, Technische Entwicklung, revisionistische Leugnung, Berlin, Metropol Verlag, xxxiv + 446 pages, particularly dense. The principal authors are Günter Morsch and Bertrand Perz, with the collaboration of Astrid Ley. To these three names should be added about thirty others including, for example, Brigitte Bailer, Jean-Yves Camus, Barbara Distel, Richard J. Evans and Robert Jan van Pelt. The title means: “New studies on the National Socialist mass murders by poison gas / Historical significance, technical evolution and revisionist denial.”
Today however, the terms “deny” and “denial” are frequently super-charged with psychological meaning.  From this perspective according to urbandictionary.com “denial consists of the refusal to accept a past or present reality.”  The American Heritage Medical Dictionary defines “denial” as “an unconscious defense mechanism characterized by refusal to acknowledge painful realities.” Wikipedia defines “denial” as “a defense mechanism postulated by Sigmund Freud, in which a person is faced with a fact that is too uncomfortable to accept and rejects it instead, insisting that it is not true despite what may be overwhelming evidence.”
Between the end of July and the beginning of August 1944, the men’s camp at Auschwitz II was composed of the following sectors: BIa, BIIa, BIId, BIIf, BIIg, listed as such in the Arbeitseinsatz (labor deployment) reports.
What then was the fate of these transports? If we are to accept mainstream historiography the vast majority of the deportees were immediately murdered by gas or bullets at the Blagovshchina site. The foremost evidence for this contention are the questionable Arlt activity reports, which, even if authentic, mention only ten, or less than half, of the transports. Aside from this we only have Strauch's sworn statement that Heydrich had ordered the killing of the transports in April 1942.
That Wiesel survived his internment at Buchenwald is, of course, the result of a miracle. Wiesel said: “In Buchenwald they sent 10,000 persons to their deaths each day. I was always in the last hundred near the gate. They stopped. Why?”[15] Today no reputable historian believes that 10,000 Jews per day were executed at Buchenwald.
The two existing air-raid-shelter doors made for Krematorium I in 1944 during the building’s conversion to an air-raid shelter are made of wooden planks covered by thin sheet metal, see Illustration 4. Although these doors were probably built by the local inmate workshop, so far no documentation about them has been found. This proves that not everything that was constructed at the Auschwitz Camp left a trace in the documental record, or if it did, that it has survived. Hence, it is conceivable that sturdy gas-tight doors similar to those shown in Illustrations 2f. were in fact delivered to Auschwitz and were subsequently installed there without leaving a documental trace.
The use of false witnesses has also been acknowledged by Johann Neuhäusler, who was an ecclesiastical resistance fighter interned in two German concentration camps from 1941 to 1945. Neuhäusler stated that in some of the American-run trials “many of the witnesses, perhaps 90%, were paid professional witnesses with criminal records ranging from robbery to homosexuality.”[7]
Numerous Jewish survivors of Auschwitz-Birkenau have publicly described a German policy of genocide. I will discuss in this section Jewish inmates of Auschwitz-Birkenau who were so young that one would not expect them to survive if there had been a German policy of genocide.
Consequently, the foreword’s reference to the team’s (astonishing) forensic findings leaves us puzzled. What were they exactly? It would seem that the “archaeological research” consisted solely of uncovering the bodies to confirm death by shooting and then covering them up again.
The "earlier pieces" referred to Perrin are not included in this book. The only prewar claim by Hitchens related to Iraqi WMD in the pieces by Hitchens included in this book is a claim that it was absolutely certain that Saddam had acquired some of the "weapons of genocide" and wanted to acquire more.
Normal and accepted standards of scholarship, including the proper use of evidence, are discarded [by revisionists].
Even today I am still amazed at the fact that the United States, swamped in Holocaustic literature but possessing so many men of science, both in chemistry and engineering, should have had no one to proceed with a comparison between the somewhat vague Nazi “gas chambers” and the easily verifiable reality (at least up until a recent time) of the American gas chambers. It is enough to see one of these to  realize instantly that the Nazi “gas chambers” are purely a figment of the imagination. A real gas chamber for the execution of a  single person is necessarily a terribly complicated thing, for the gasser must avoid gassing himself 1) either in the execution phase, 2) or during ventilation, 3) or when entering the chamber and handling and removing a highly cyanided body which, being so, remains highly dangerous. I repeat that it would suffice, even for the uninitiated, to see up close an American prison’s gas chamber and to have its operation explained to understand that not only did the Nazi “gas chambers” not exist but also that they could not even have existed. For my part, in 1979, I had seen and studied the gas chamber in Baltimore, Maryland. Also in 1979, in Los Angeles, at the first international conference of the Institute for Historical Review, I made public my discovery of the black box of Auschwitz and Birkenau. “This is dynamite!”, one lady in the audience judged.
In her books and essays Heschel sends the message that ethnic/racial nationalism is evil and bad for non-Jews, while at the same time she supports ethnic nationalism—that is, Zionism —for Jews. Heschel is also a critic of White Christian civilization, for she has written: "When the story of male, white, Christian Western civilization is related, should not its cultural glories be tempered with the evidence of its racism and misogyny?"[29] Likewise with Heschel's Judaism: when the story of Jewish history is related, should not its cultural glories be tempered with the evidence of its racism and misogyny?
All the men listed above were at some point or other SS physicians at the infamous Auschwitz Camp.[1]
In 1990 the revisionists, with the introduction of the Fabius-Gayssot Act, saw confirmation that the opposing party, unable to answer them on the level of history and science, now possessed a formal weapon with which to enforce acceptance of the official history: it was henceforth plainly and simply forbidden to dispute “the existence of crimes against humanity” as defined and punished at Nuremberg (1945-1946) by the victors in the name of the “United Nations,” after establishing themselves as judges of their own vanquished enemy. The use of the Nazi gas chambers was, of course, part of these new crimes and denying it thus became an offence punishable by imprisonment, fines and various other penalties.
The date given (March 15) is clearly wrong. This version contains two handwritten notes in German that refer to an original. The first, p. 2, says “unsinnige Übersetzung” (“senseless translation,” next to the sentence: “I was given the order, by a higher authority the then inspectorate of the concentration camps”), while the other on p. 3, next to the phrase “(page 2 of the original),” says “Original unleserlich” (“Original illegible”). This indicates that the person adding these handwritten remarks probably had the German transcript available, and that he disagreed with the translation. It can be ruled out that this is Höss’s handwriting, but it cannot be determined with certainty that it is Beaumont’s, because this translation does not contain his handwritten signature. If these are Beaumont’s remarks, he obviously was not the author of the translation, as one would assume from his attestation.
No such planning has been found regarding the use of homicidal gas chambers in German concentration camps. The Holocaust story claims that the first gassings occurred at Auschwitz using Zyklon B in September 1941. These gassings were allegedly done without any prior engineering considerations.[14] According to the officially accepted version of the Holocaust story, the SS at Auschwitz quickly built homicidal gas chambers that were capable of killing thousands of people out of ordinary buildings .[15]
In his second study about Auschwitz, Pressac writes:
Since the existence of homicidal gas chambers in the German concentration camps has been scientifically disproven, it is understandable that Goldhagen and Mayer would want to minimize the importance of homicidal gas chambers in the grand scheme of the alleged genocide of European Jewry.
Judge Gray also concluded that Irving’s treatment of the historical evidence “fell far short of the standard to be expected of a conscientious historian” and that his estimate of “100,000 and more deaths [in Dresden]…lacked any evidential basis and were such as no responsible historian would have made.”[22] Gray based his conclusion primarily on the testimony of Richard Evans. However, as I have discussed in a previous article, the death toll at Dresden could have easily been as high as 250,000 people.[23]
Despite this, it is undeniable that terrible civilian atrocities occurred. Shootings, starvation, disease, forced labor, loss of property, ejection from homes, separation from loved ones, all of these combine to create a horrific picture. Many non-Jews also suffered these kinds of horrors, but it would certainly be fair to state that the Jewish population got the worst of it. In some of the cases in which death was caused, people were directly killed by Nazi actions (by shooting, for example), in others indirectly. With regard to the latter, deaths were caused by gradual wearing-down, by people having been pushed to the fringes of society and shorn of the ability to support or fend for themselves. A resident of a walled ghetto, for example, cannot go out foraging for mushrooms in the woods if food runs out. When faced with extreme deprivation and crisis, such people simply died. However it is highly debatable whether this can truly be regarded as ‘extermination’. If it is, then a case could be made that many, many millions of Europeans were exterminated because of actions of the Allies, as shall be discussed shortly. Indeed, the idea that the Nazis hatched a plan to murder all the Jews of Europe and these various methods, in addition to gas chambers were used to facilitate such a plan is not borne out by the trial. Not one defendant admitted to it. Not one original document, even of the defendants’ private correspondence or diaries was produced to evidence it. In some cases, like Frank’s, many volumes of such diaries or correspondence were combed for references to these things, unsuccessfully. To maintain faith in the regular Holocaust narrative therefore requires a belief in a kind of conspiracy. One must assume that these twenty-one defendants, who were captured individually, kept in solitary confinement and interrogated constantly, all somehow colluded to admit to knowledge of the same things and deny knowledge of the same things. This showed itself in both interrogation and questioning in the courtroom and private writings and correspondence written contemporarily. Further to that point is that the only evidence which supported these most serious claims was that purposely produced or gathered by the Allies for the trial, generally through interrogation of more junior Nazis or eyewitness affidavits, not that which was produced contemporarily by those involved in the events. This division is similar to the ‘witting’ and ‘unwitting’ evidence[26] described by Arthur Marwick in his influential work ‘The Nature of History’. Why the ‘witting’ evidence gathered by the Allies should provide a different story to the ‘unwitting’ evidence provided by contemporary documents would perhaps suggest that the witting evidence was tainted. Knowledge of the methods of Allied evidence gathering makes such a suggestion highly plausible.
At other times, Grumbach refers to the Holocaust in quasi-religious, mystical tones when he writes “the Lausanne Court found that these extracts constituted a serious affront to the dignity of Jews in general. The Court also recognized that these extracts amounted to an offence against the sacrosanct memory of the victims as well as a defamatory attack against the history of the Jewish community.”[33]
Above all, trains did not leave Belzec or Treblinka[3] so that the passengers could die in the cars. Belzec and Treblinka were death camps with gas chambers, and these facilities were not mentioned in Karski’s account.[4]
"With regard to gas chambers, the almost endless procession of false witnesses and of falsified documents to which I have invited the reader's attention during this long study, proves, nevertheless, only one thing: never at any moment did the responsible authorities of the Third Reich intend to order, or in fact order, the extermination of the Jews in this or any other manner. Did such exterminations take place without orders? This question has haunted me for fifteen years."[9]
By the Summer of 1940, Rassinier would witness France's military collapse and surrender to Nazi Germany. He became one of the founding members of the "Libre-Nord" movement, the French Resistance movement to liberate the northern occupied zone of their country. Even during this difficult time, Rassinier continued to preach the principles of non-violence and pacifism. His ideals were unwelcome to many within the movement and he would find himself condemned to death by members of the Communist resistance.[3] His "rescue" from a death sentence came in October of 1943 when he was arrested by the Nazi Gestapo for various activities including the smuggling of Jewish refugees over the Franco-Swiss border. Rassinier was sent to the concentration camp at Buchenwald for his activities. Later he would be moved to Dora where he would stay through the war's end.
“The horrific scene of mass annihilation within the Nordhausen concentration camp.”
In the year 1700, German scholar Johann Eisenmenger published a shocking exposé entitled Entdecktes Judentum—Judaism Unmasked. His objective was to reveal the thread of Jewish ideology hidden within Christianity, and to lay out the pernicious effect of Jews in contemporary German society. The book was highly influential for more than two centuries, in large part because it laid bare the deeper nature of European Jewry. In the present day, we have many such exposés, some tackling large and complex issues (such as the broader Holocaust) and others, like the present essay, that seek to simply ‘unmask’ one small piece of a larger story. Sometimes we can draw the largest of lessons from the humblest of examples.
Several days later an SS sergeant approached us and requested that we take charge of supplies for his armored unit and deliver them to the front. We were to go to Auschwitz and pick up submachine guns, ammunition, smoke signal devices, blankets and other items for the combat squadron of our SS Panzer comrades. We drove there next day, but some of the items were not in stock and so we had to wait several days. We were quartered in the transit barracks. Every day we went to the warehouse with our requisition forms until finally we had everything on the list.
Setkiewicz highlights the lack of documentary evidence in relation to the alleged mass extermination at Auschwitz, noting:
Pinter’s name is in a strange way connected to the former concentration camp Mauthausen. This camp had been taken on May 5th, 1945 by American troops, who immediately started an investigation of atrocities by the SS. The results were set forth in a report[31] dated June 17th, 1945, where the existence of a gas chamber is mentioned. Pinter was not connected with the Mauthausen Trial at Dachau (March 29 – May 13, 1946).
The decoded messages enabled the compilation of very exact statistics. The radio messages from 28 October 1942 – taking a single day at random – reveal, for example, that Auschwitz Concentration Camp contained a total, all told, of 25,298 inmates: 18,754 men and 6,544 women; including 10,755 Jews, 8,822 Poles, 1,369 Russians and 1,578 Germans. It was also learned that there were exactly 787 Zugänge and 168 Abgänge on 28 July 1942; Zugänge referred to the arrival of new inmates; Abgänge referred to deaths, executions, releases and inmates transferred to other camps.
McLaren asserts that his conclusions were based both on witness testimony and forensic evidence. McLaren says that the trajectory of the fatal shot and the size of the entrance wound are inconsistent with the ammunition that Oswald used but are in line with the type of ammunition used in Secret Service weapons.[5]
Now, these people at Andersonville aren’t Jews, and never has anyone alleged the South aimed for a total genocide of Northerners. The photographs of Andersonville and for instance Bergen-Belsen are quite similar and correlate with the breakdown in hygiene, overcrowding, the spread of disease and one side of the war losing catastrophically. What you see in these images at Bergen-Belsen is primarily the result of typhus.
Fig. 5: Paul Sakowski as defendant in the Sachsenhausen trial (Berlin-Pankow, Oct. 1947)
5. Labeling Holocaust revisionism “Holocaust denial” is unwarrantedly pejorative. It might be fine for Fox News, but it is not conducive to, and often precludes, intelligent discourse. To call Holocaust revisionism “thinly veiled anti-Semitism” is simply untrue and it defames scholars and others, including Jews, who question the Holocaust doctrine as we are fed it in hundreds of films, books, articles, and commentaries. Terms like Holocaust Industry, Holocaust Fatigue, Holocaust professional, Holocaust wannabes, and Holocaust High Priest were not coined by “deniers” or anti-Semites; they were coined by Jews. (The High Priest quip is an obvious reference to Elie Wiesel; it was made by Tova Reich in her book My Holocaust. Tova’s husband, Walter Reich, was the former director of the US Holocaust Museum in Washington.)
Blaha unterzeichnete am 9. Januar 1946 eine eidesstattliche Erklärung, in der er seine Erfahrungen mit der Dachauer Gaskammer beschrieb. Sie ist auf Deutsch, aber eine englische Übersetzung wurde wie folgt zu Protokoll gegeben während des Nürnberger Tribunals:[19]
51 textes essentiels dont : De Gaulle était-il un révisionniste ? — L’origine du mythe et son exploitation. — Né à Auschwitz en 1943 et mort en France en 1985. — Chambre à gaz et terrain de foot. — La banque(route) du Yad Vashem. — La transformation des morgues des crématoires d’Auschwitz-Birkenau. — Des actes de décès pour les juifs gazés ? — Jean-Claude Pressac et les archives de Moscou. — Le procès Irving vs. Lipstadt. — Hitler et le génocide des Arméniens. — Des cheminées qui fumaient jour et nuit. — Gazé à Treblinka et mort à Minsk. — Des déportés juifs de France retrouvés en Ukraine ? — Les fables des fosses de crémation et de la graisse humaine utilisée comme combustible. — Le journal du docteur Kremer. — Friedel, 9 ans : gazé mais revenu. —Des enfants rescapés d’Auschwitz. — Des actes de naissance pour les enfants nés à Auschwitz. Etc.
Cox describes the first independent forensic report on Auschwitz:
Finally, a fourth tactic: straw-man argumentation. Evans’s final pillar of ‘denial’ is that the Holocaust is a “myth” and the evidence “fabricated.” He elaborates: “Reading through the work of Holocaust deniers like Arthur Butz, it was more than clear that they wanted their readers to believe that the evidence for the Holocaust was all fabricated” (p. 137). Later he refers to “the common position of Holocaust deniers that evidence for the Holocaust has been fabricated” (p. 148). These statements are utterly false. As mentioned above, the ‘fabrication’ claim is not a key aspect of any important revisionist work today. Thus it becomes a straw man: Evans lays out an argument that revisionists do not hold, knocks it down, and then declares victory. It is a classic logical fallacy. The fact that Irving—not a serious Holocaust revisionist—made two or three ill-considered remarks does not grant Evans license to smear the true revisionists with the same broad brush.
Predictably, the highlight of the case was Auschwitz and the homicidal gas chambers that are said to have existed there. Irving expressed skepticism that there had been any, while defense attorney Richard Rampton flatly rejected the idea that he had any obligation to build an affirmative case for them:
In the main text of the book, Stroumsa does not give any information on the gas chambers. Only in the appendix does he give the testimony of a friend, Hazan Saul, who claims to have worked in the Sonderkommando. Starting on page 143, we read the following:
The impossibility of disposing of so many bodies in such a short period of time proves the absurdity that all Jews sent to the Aktion Reinhardt camps were exterminated. Historians universally acknowledge that none of the Aktion Reinhardt camps had crematoria. By contrast, German concentration camps such as Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen and Dachau had crematoria even though mass killings are not alleged to have taken place at these camps. Why wouldn’t the Germans have also built crematoria at the Aktion Reinhardt camps, since such crematoria would have been far more necessary to accomplish the mass killings?[30]
Despite the meagerness of her argument, representative Jerrold Nadler (D, NY) echoed Lipstadt's position, declaring that the Trump Administration was “in the camp of Holocaust denial” and that statements from the administration contained “anti-Semitic themes.” (A. Tibon, Ha'aretz, 6 February 2017)
The witness was registered at Birkenau under number 182727. On 11 April 1944 there arrived at Auschwitz from Greece a transport of 2,500 Jews, of whom 320 men (182440-182759) and 328 women (76856-77183) were registered[19].
The mendacity of all the witnesses against Wirz were borne out not only by many telltale inconsistencies and unlikelihoods in their testimonies but as well by revelations uncovered long after the tribunal (and the execution of its innocent subject), disclosing typically that the very identities of the witnesses had been falsified, and the evidence as to their whereabouts during the times they claimed to have observed Major Wirz’s acts most dubious.
Of course, Katsoulis disdains to entertain the possibility that phony the Holocaust memoir genre may have deeper roots than such notoriously dethroned examples permit us to consider. With reference to the only slightly more sophisticated yarns spun by the “acknowledged stars of Holocaust memoir” such as Primo Levi and Elie Wiesel, she proffers nary an ort of qualified skepticism. Nor does she acknowledge that Holocaust revisionists have long deployed the same veridical tools and critical methods favored by less odious debunkers to expose serious flaws and discrepancies in the works of the most celebrated and memorialized Holocaust memoirists, including that truly tragic figure, Anne Frank. In my view, revisionists – beginning with Robert Faurisson – have compiled a compelling dossier suggesting that the world-famous “Diary of a Young Girl” was posthumously embellished with such ingenuity and to such extent as to constitute a wholesale fraud. Yet Katsoulis doesn’t go there. She doesn’t even acknowledge that a dispute exists, relevant as the point should be. To do so would be to enter the mind of a Christian apologist who sets out to examine the Apocrypha only to end up questioning the entire Canon.
Of these articles, the ones about the Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp and the Soviet Extraordinary Commission are of particular importance.
The alleged slaughter of 33,711 Ukrainian Jews at Babi Yar near Kiev is the most notorious massacre ascribed to the Germans on the Eastern Front. This figure appears in an Einsatzgruppen report from 7 October 1941.[26] According to the established version of the facts, these 33,711 Jews were shot and their bodies thrown into the ravine of Babij Yar on 29 September 1941. But the first witnesses told completely different stories: The massacre was perpetrated in a graveyard, or near a graveyard, or in a forest, or in the very city of Kiev, or on the shores of the Dnieper. As to the murder weapons, the early witnesses spoke of rifles, or machine guns, or submachine guns, or hand grenades, or bayonets, or knives; some witnesses claimed that the victims had been put to death via lethal injections whereas others asserted that they had been drowned in the Dnieper, or buried alive, or killed by means of electric current, or squashed by tanks, or driven into minefields, or that their skulls had been crushed with rocks, or that they had been murdered in gas vans.[27] Now that is what we call good, solid evidence, is it not, Dr. Lindtner?
Ernst von Weizsäcker never should have been convicted of any crime by the American tribunal at Nuremberg. He had always worked for peace, and certainly was never involved in any plan of genocide against European Jewry. Like many other Germans, Weizsäcker was victimized by an American-run trial that was organized primarily for revenge purposes rather than to dispense impartial justice.
So as to dispel any possible mistrust among the newly arrived Jews, Kommandeur Strauch assigned a member of the KdS department to hold a reassuring speech. An SS-Führer or Unterführer greeted them at the collection point and declared that they were being 'resettled' on the order of the Führer and that they would be sent to work on agricultural farms until the end of the war. It seems that most of them trusted those words. In any case the victims always stepped up into the gas vans or lorries quietly and calmly. A corresponding camouflage language was commonly employed, for example in official writings, where executions were called 'settlement' [Ansiedlung] or 'resettlement' [Umsiedlung] and the execution sites 'settlement areas' [Siedlungsgelände].”[34]
The evidence of the mass murder of Jews was largely buried or erased by the Nazis long before the end of the war. At the war’s end, what was there to show? What was there to display? And something had to be displayed. World War II is a war with an ex post facto reason for being. The war started to keep Poland free and independent. At the end of the war, when Poland was essentially given to the USSR as a slave state (not that there was much the U.S. could have done to stop it from happening), none of the victorious powers wanted folks to start asking, “wait—sixty million people dead, the great cities of Europe burned to the ground, all to keep Poland free, and now we’re giving Poland to Stalin?”
Regarding those survivors, the translation of the Protocol entered into the record of the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg actually states:
In addition, claiming that certain things are simply not up for debate is also a clear and present sign of an unscholarly attitude, not to say sheer bigotry. Although Dr. Lipstadt admits that there are many aspects of the Holocaust that are debated among mainstream historians, she insists that
Let us get these inconsistencies perfectly straight. Eichmann tells Raveh that the various possibilities for killing were discussed, but he tells Landau that there was no specific talk of killing methods! The confusing and apparently contradictory nature of Eichmann’s two responses gives even the most hardcore believer in the traditional Holocaust story a reason to doubt that the “mass murder of Jews in gas chambers” was ever discussed at Wannsee. This further confirms what mainstream “Final Solution” historian Browning wrote back in 2003 about the unreliability of the Eichmann testimonials: “[T]he testimonies of especially [Rudolf] Höss [former commandant of Auschwitz concentration camp] and to some extent Eichmann are confused, contradictory, self-serving, and not credible.”[32]
Prescott Bush was partner with W. Averell Harriman in Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., and the Union Banking Corporation. UBC acted as a clearinghouse for Thyssen interests. Because of this UBC’s assets were seized by the U.S government during the war. That Thyssen languished in Nazi concentration camps for the duration of the war is disregarded by those who seek a Wall Street connection with Hitler via Thyssen. Hence, The Guardian claimed to have new revelations in 2004 which turn out as nothing, with the focus on Thyssen being the businessman who “financed Hitler to power.” However, again more is said of the character of international capital than of big business backing for Hitler. The Guardian article states:
When it came to taking on Holocaust historiography, Bradley was at his most powerful, whether in court, on the air, or in writing, when assailing the testimony of the most-prominent survivors—Elie Wiesel; Abe Bomba, the barber of Treblinka; “crazy” Jankiel Wiernik, the carpenter of Treblinka; and many others. It’s not hard to see that Bradley’s fury at these slandering impostors was fueled, not by hatred of Jews, but precisely by his insistence that Jews be judged by the same standards as non-Jews. Not that his equity could ever mollify the Holocaust lobby and other groups that act, with none but trifling opposition, in the name of Jewry. Nor, alas, did that equity impress the non-Jews throughout the media and academe that Bradley worked tirelessly to draw into open debate on the Holocaust.
“The mass murders in the crematorium were carried out either by shooting in the neck or in the gas chamber.”
So, the pertinent question is: how reliable are the Eichmann testimonies? It is important to list what Browning claims are the three “monstrous falsehoods” in the Eichmann testimonies: (1) he was not an anti-Semite; (2) in his early career, from the mid-1930s until 1941, he wanted to help the Jews find a home for themselves; and finally, (3) with the outbreak of war “he was an utterly passive receiver of orders, who took no initiatives and made no decisions. He simply obeyed. He had nothing to do with killing Jews, though admittedly he played a minor role in their evacuation.”[18] The mainstream “Final Solution” researcher adds that the Eichmann memoirs are plagued with other falsehoods: “In addition to these three colossal lies, Eichmann told innumerable little lies when confronted with a succession of incriminating documents and testimony…Eichmann was not a particularly subtle or skillful liar.”[19]
Now we come to another subject, the ways and means by which German judges deal with evidence. Section 261 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure says:
Now let us have a look at what the website buecher.de says about the first of them, Die deutsche Ordnungspolizei und der Holocaust im Baltikum und in Weissrussland 1941-1944 (Schöningh, 2006):
The Katyn Forest tragedy of 1940 reveals among other things that history is not black and white. An Allied power committed a thoroughly documented crime against unarmed POWs. They also produced falsified witness testimony and a phony “forensic report” to cover up their crime and utilized the power and authority of the tribunal at Nuremberg to hammer home their falsified version of the truth. One is forced to consider what else may have falsified by the Soviets at Nuremberg and elsewhere. There can be little doubt that revelations regarding such matters remain quite inconvenient to those in positions of power.
Cole’s story is thus laced with insight bearing on such threads of connective tissue that, moral equivalence be damned, unite revisionism with movement conservatism. When Cole dwelled in revisionist circles, he inveighed against Faurisson-branded “No holes, No Holocaust” rhetoric and pled for sanity against the seductive force of sundry conspiracy theories. When Cole dwelled in the world of conservative politics, he found himself in the same futile rut, taking pubic issue with Breitbart-branded trench warfare tactics and pleading for sanity against the seductive force of sundry conspiracy theories. “I’d rather gouge out my testicles,” Cole quips, “than accept the accolades of the lunatic fringe.”
2. Undetermined Outcome: The answers to research questions can be determined exclusively by verifiable evidence. They cannot be determined by taboos or official guidelines laid down by scientific, societal, religious, political, judicial or other authorities.
Today, this room is equipped with two heavy steel doors of the type that were quite common for air-raid shelters. The doors are one meter wide and set in steel frames. The same doors are shown in the U.S. footage recorded on May 3, 1945, hence just five days after the camp was captured by the Americans. They were therefore most likely built in there long before the Americans arrived. Also, one of the walls actually consists of two layers with a hollow space in between, which is typically used as insulation, something also seen at the above-mentioned Auschwitz morgue.
Article (c) is actually incoherent and does not make sense: for example, if a historian investigates the alleged genocide of Armenians by Turks in 1915-16 (the “denial” of which has been made a crime in France, as of 2012): that investigation cannot be “directed against” a group of persons of a race, colour, nation etc. – that does not make sense. A historian’s conclusion may spark anger, but that is no reason to criminalize it.
On Sunday, Trump's chief of staff, Reince Priebus, appeared on Meet the Press where he expressed sadness for “everyone’s suffering in the Holocaust including obviously, all of the Jewish people.” Interviewer Chuck Todd prodded Priebus to say that there was regret about how the statement had been worded, but he would not say that.
In this issue of Inconvenient History we turn a dissident eye to several aspects of the mythology of the Second World War. In our feature story, Editorial advisor Joseph Bellinger reveals the little known story of the liberation of the infamous concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen. We are also happy to publish the third installment of Thomas Kues's Chronicle of Holocaust Revisionism series bringing this classic piece of historiography up to 1960. Researcher Paul Grubach provides a lengthy analysis of Susannah Heschel's theology and focuses on the little discussed topic of Christianity in National Socialist Germany. Joseph Bishop returns to this issue by asking several unanswered questions about the Katyn Forest massacre. The issue is rounded out by reviews of Dalton's Debating the Holocaust and Longerich's Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews as well as a new biographical profile of libertarian and revisionist Murray Rothbard.
To her credit, Lipstadt points out that many of the “Holocaust survivors” who stepped forward to testify at the Eichmann trial offered unreliable or false eyewitness testimony. A representative from Yad Vashem, Israel’s official Holocaust memorial, Rachel Auerbach, who screened this testimony, “recognized that just because they [“Holocaust survivors”] said that they had seen something did not ensure its reliability.” She observed that many of those who volunteered to testify were people who claimed to have ‘seen Eichmann’ at places where he had never been or where ‘no one could have identified him in those days.’ There were also those she described as ‘morbid publicity seekers (p. 54).’” Nevertheless, Auerbach believed that most of those who offered to testify were “highly responsible people (p. 54).” Lipstadt offers us reasons to doubt this.
[12] Christophersen, Thies, “Reflections on Auschwitz and West German Justice,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 6, No. 1, Spring 1985, p. 117. See http://www.ihr.org/jhr/v06/v06p117_Christophersen.html
“The quiet, decent people – who prepared twenty years to bring war into the world. A religious people – who burned churches, imprisoned ministers, persecute the faithful. A kindly people – who accept blood purges, pogroms, concentration camps. A gentle people – who torture, starve, exterminate.” (Here Is Germany, 3:51-4:15)
In his highly praised 2004 book, The Origins of the Final Solution, Browning gently offered this cautionary caveat about Eichmann’s testimony: “As with any detailed eyewitness testimonies after so many years, Eichmann’s various accounts differ from one another and are not free of puzzling contradictions with other evidence.”[15]
So not only was our survivor a Superman kid capable of hard work and beating all adult males in the camp, he could also survive being shot in the head, get up, destroy the headlights of a car, and run away… Szymon Srebrnik, close-up from Claude Lanzmann's Shoah Actually, when you look at Lanzmann's close-up of Srebrnik (5 min 49 sec. into the movie), you can clearly see that there is no trace of any major scar on his mouth, his lips, his nose. A bullet would have left an indelible mark, though.
The blue discoloration which has been noted in the disinfestation, or delousing, chambers at the Auschwitz and Birkenau camps most probably resulted from a similar reaction. The idealized reactions underlying the conversion of iron(III) oxide to Iron Blue in wall material (brick, cement, mortar, concrete, plaster) in the presence of large amounts of gaseous HCN are probably as follows:[4]
Yet the time came when Churchill made his peace with Communism. In 1941, he gave unconditional support to Stalin, welcomed him as an ally, embraced him as a friend. Churchill, as well as Roosevelt, used the affectionate nickname, "Uncle Joe"; as late as the Potsdam conference, he repeatedly announced, of Stalin: "I like that man."[13] In suppressing the evidence that the Polish officers at Katyn had been murdered by the Soviets, he remarked: "There is no use prowling round the three year old graves of Smolensk."[14] Obsessed not only with defeating Hitler, but with destroying Germany, Churchill was oblivious to the danger of a Soviet inundation of Europe until it was far too late. The climax of his infatuation came at the November, 1943, Tehran conference, when Churchill presented Stalin with a Crusader's sword.[15] Those who are concerned to define the word "obscenity" may wish to ponder that episode.
This is, however, only the same dubious method used by Danuta Czech in the composition of her Auschwitz Chronicle (Czech 1989). Yet Setkiewicz wants to go beyond this by analyzing documents previously ignored by the Auschwitz Museum which should provide new evidence.
In a collection of “Holocaust survivor” testimonies from 2007 we read the following account concerning “Marie”, a Jewess from the Vilna Ghetto:
The Germans shot civilian hostages in Bydgoszcz, burned synagogues, and conducted operations similar to Lidice in numerous Polish villages and towns. German reprisals often included public executions and hangings of Polish citizens to discourage partisan activities. Germany also commenced resettlement schemes beginning in West Prussia, where 750,000 Polish citizens were expelled to make way for Germans transferred from the Baltic States. In 1942-1943, Germany cleared over 300 villages in central Poland as part of an additional resettlement scheme.[25]
[9] Segev, Tom, The Seventh Million: The Israelis and the Holocaust, New York: Hill and Wang, 1993, p. 63.
Curtis spends some time describing the character of Reynouard himself. The man is said to have “fled” to Belgium (“left” would have been a less prejudicial word) to avoid jail in France for his “hate proclamations.” This brings up another name that may need to be rectified. It is likely that Reynouard’s videos were offering a “reassessment of the nature and extent of German mistreatment of Jews between 1933 and 1945,” but that they were not expressing hatred (a very strong negative emotion) at all. Why do we say this? It is because there is evidence that for a century or more now propagandists have termed as “hatred” theses they wish to suppress (rather than argue against logically in public forums). For example, David Duke quotes a passage from the Encyclopaedia Judaica to the effect that, when the Russian civil war ended (shortly after the Bolshevik revolution), “a law was passed against ‘incitement to hatred and hostility of a national or religious nature,’” which was really designed to protect the revolutionaries, the majority of whom were Jewish.[4]
Promoters of the Holocaust story inevitably raise eyewitness testimony as “proof” of the genocide of European Jewry during World War II. A pro-Holocaust supporter told me that witnesses such as Elie Wiesel, Simon Wiesenthal and Viktor Frankl are not relied upon by historians to prove the “Holocaust” happened. Instead, testimony from Sonderkommandos who actually worked at the alleged homicidal gas chambers constitutes the most-reliable eyewitness testimony. A Sonderkommando was an inmate who aided the German camp authorities with disposing of the bodies of inmates who had died in the camps. Many of them were Jews, and all the “eyewitness” testimony comes from Jews, some of whom claim that all Sonderkommando members were Jews.
The Jews are after [Prime Minister] Chamberlain. He is being terribly harassed by them… All the Jews are against him… They have got a big position in the press here [in the UK]… I am shaken. The Jews may drive us into war [and] their political influence is moving us in that direction. (cited in Nasaw 2012: 357-358)
…Are mass deportations crimes when committed by our enemies during war and justifiable measures of social adjustment when carried out by our allies in time of peace? Is it more humane to turn out old women and children to die at a distance than to asphyxiate Jews in gas chambers? Can those responsible for the deaths of those who die after expulsion be regarded as less guilty because they do not see or hear the agonies of their victims? Are the future laws of war to justify the killing of enemy nationals after enemy resistance has ceased?[18]
The 1945-6 reality is that not only was the Holocaust a minor feature at Nuremberg, but with a few notable exceptions, the evidence that was presented for it was largely of insubstantial nature – either contained in affidavits or eyewitness testimony, much of which was in the form of hearsay. That is not to suggest that ‘it’ (whatever ‘it’ may be defined as) did not happen, it is clear that terrible civilian atrocities occurred, but simply that anyone who attempts to claim that the modern Holocaust obelisk was erected in any way during this first great trial at Nuremberg is demonstrating little other than their wearing of a large pair of historical blinkers.[23] At the Trial of the Major War Criminals before the International Military Tribunal (where one would have thought it would have had a prominent role to play) it could not be said, in any reasonable way, to have been factually demonstrated through evidence. Despite this it was stated in the IMT judgment in much the same form in which Historians describe it today. Its component parts had been deemed by the tribunal to be ‘facts of common knowledge’.
The admission suddenly unleashed the loathing of the Jewish sergeants in the arresting party whose parents had died in Auschwitz following an order signed by Hoess.
Leading Jewish Holocaustians recently attacked President Donald Trump for issuing a statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day that did not specify that the victims were Jews. The result is that the public has been informed by Deborah Lipstadt that the Holocaust is by definition an exclusively Jewish matter, and by Yehuda Bauer that the old war propaganda alleging millions of non-Jewish victims was false—which certainly will be cited in the future as a justification for questioning the Jewish claim of 6 million. This was a self-destructive assault by members of the Holocaustian establishment against President Trump.
Paul Rassinier, widely considered to be the father of Holocaust revisionism, is an unlikely man to have earned such a title. He was born on March 18, 1906 in Beaumont, France. Rassinier would never forget the memory of his father, Joseph, a farmer and a veteran of the French colonial army in Tonkin (present-day Vietnam) being mobilized for World War I. Rassinier refused to take an active role in the War to end all Wars, and rather suffered incarceration in a military prison for his pacifist ideals. Young Paul would also become a dedicated pacifist, a principle that he held to throughout his life.[1]
Before moving to expose and analyze the exterminationists’ conspiratorial thinking on the Holocaust, Rémi Perron reminds us how often they invoke fictive conspiracies to explain events in National Socialist Germany separate from the Holocaust. He runs through the conspiracy theories that various establishment savants have brought to Hitler’s 1923 Munich putsch; the 1933 Reichstag fire; the 1934 Night of the Long Knives; the 1938 Crystal Night riots against the Jews; and of course the conspiratorial certitude that Hitler was merely the puppet of international financial interests. Indeed, it should be pointed out that these conspiracy theories merely echo Count One of the Allied indictment at Nuremberg, according to which virtually everything involving National Socialism between 1921, when Hitler became leader of the NSDAP, to the end of the war was the result of a Nazi conspiracy—including a nefarious plot “to undermine and overthrow the German Government by ‘legal’ means.” (http://avalon.law.yale.edu/imt/count1.asp)
vii) The sources for this consist of references to three German court witnesses,[16] as well as a letter and a court testimony left by a certain Reinhold Grabow, an official of the economic administration, the latter being partially reproduced in a well-known collection of testimonies and documents.[17] In the reproduced passage the location is indeed Bobruisk or its vicinity, but the timeframe specified by Grabow is not “1942-43” but specifically a period of some days in April or May 1942, and the nationality of the Jewish victims is not mentioned. According to the official version of events all Jews in Bobruisk and its vicinity had been exterminated by November 1941;[18] there thus should have been no Jewish massacres for Grabow to witness. Now we may ask ourselves: If the massacre described really did take place, and if the Jews that were murdered had been brought to Bobruisk from Poland, why had not the Germans killed these Jews on-site in Poland? Moreover: Why kill all these Jews if there was “a need for manpower” in the Bobruisk area during the same period (as mentioned by Gerlach)? While interesting as an anomaly, Grabow’s testimony clearly has little to say about deportations from Poland to Belarus. What is important here is not Grabow’s statement itself, but Gerlach’s comment on it, which implies that this major expert on the fate of the Jews of Belarus believes it fully possible that tens of thousands of Polish Jews were deported to the area of Bobruisk in 1942-1943 – a notion that is clearly irreconcilable with orthodox holocaust historiography. Gerlach’s speculation is no doubt informed by the fact that Bobruisk frequently appears in reports and supposedly forged letters as a destination of Jews evacuated from Warsaw in 1942 (cf. §3.3.16, 3.6.).
While the death books had been largely lost during the evacuation of the camp, the daily figures of prisoners present at roll call (Veränderungsmeldungen) has survived. With a few gaps, these documents covered the period from 1 January 1940 to 17 April 1945. Based on these figures, the Prisoner Records Office (Häftlingsschreibstube), which answered to the SS, had compiled monthly statistics of Prisoner Movement (Häftlingsbewegung). These documents, which were also captured by the Soviets, are now exhibited at the Sachsenhausen Memorial Site (Barracks 38), however they are falsely presented as statistics drawn up by former prisoners after the end of the war. As a matter of fact, the tables are contemporaneous with the camp’s operation and compiled at the Prisoner Records Office , which was subordinated to the Political Section (Politische Abteilung) of the SS.[1]
Doors of an alleged gas chamber for the killing of people with the same gas. This is the "gas chamber" of Auschwitz-I (main camp).
One aspect of Wirz’s handling during and especially after the trial had potentially momentous implications, but these in fact never arose, evidently from Wirz’s heroic refusal to lie. Page carefully documents an initiative that came apparently from the office of Secretary of War Edwin Stanton to commute Wirz’s death sentence on the condition that he give evidence implicating former Confederate President Jefferson Davis in a plan to starve or otherwise kill prisoners of war in his custody. It’s impossible to know, of course, whether Stanton would have made good on his offer of clemency, but Wirz never gave any such evidence, and he swung from the end of a rope. Stanton’s character as presented in the final chapter of the book inclines one to presume that Wirz might have met the same end even if he had given the desired “evidence.”
Setkiewicz notes that not even two tons of Zyklon B picked up in Dessau were entered in the previously mentioned register of orders for consumables, which would mean that the two Zyklon B deliveries of July 1942 hauled by truck contained not quite a metric ton of cargo each. It is possible, he hypothesizes, that such small cargos, when seen in relation to the distance between Auschwitz and Dessau, were due to an emergency situation (Setkiewicz says “interwencyjnych,” literally “of intervention”) resulting in those orders not having been entered in the aforementioned register.
The second problem is that Holocaust historiography does not know, and cannot say, how many cremation pits existed and how big they were, at the two locations mentioned and in total. This is because the statements of the witnesses are contradictory in this regard. The following table, for example, shows the eyewitness testimony relating to the alleged pits near Crematorium V:[5]
After the Warsaw insurrection had been crushed, the Germans treated captured combatants of the Polish Armia Krajowa (Home Army) correctly in accordance with the Hague Conventions: As they wore uniforms and fought under a regular leadership, they were not partisans but qualified as regular prisoners of war. In September 1944, about 17,700 of these Polish POWs were sent to Sachsenhausen and its satellite camps. In the Prisoner’s Report[29] they are scornfully referred to as “elements who had sought the protection of the Fascist Wehrmacht”. This is typical Soviet jargon. It is well known that the Red Army, which was halted on the eastern shore of the Vistula, did not extend any effective assistance to the insurgents but idly stood by while the uprising was being crushed. The Soviets did not want the Polish nationalists to succeed because the Polish nationalists supported the London-based Polish government in exile and would have hindered the planned Sovietization of Poland.
“For the sake of those who say today that they didn’t know anything about it – a  large part of the population did know about it. Perhaps [they didn’t know] that it was quite as brutal as it was in reality. But they knew that there were concentration camps. They knew that Jews were kept there. And later, word got around that they were gassed. It wasn’t for nothing that it was said in those years, ’Take care, otherwise you’ll go up the chimney.’ That was a familiar figure of speech. It circulated everywhere in Germany. [An expression like] ‘otherwise, you’ll go through the chimney’ doesn’t come about by chance.” (p. 259)
Another aspect of the case is that it may be tending to make easier in the future extraditions of Australian citizens for ideological and/or political reasons, rather than purely as a matter of justice. As noted earlier in this essay, one of the grounds barring extradition from Australia would be if it were sought ‘for political reasons’. The Zentai team, judging by news coverage, do not seem to have tried to use this point as a defense; but a strong case can be made that the pursuit of Zentai is tainted by extra-judicial agendas. Moreover, one can foresee that in the future, when the supply of ‘Nazis’ runs out, the pursuers might adjust their aim on to so-called ‘Holocaust deniers’ (in accordance with UNO resolutions) or other ‘politically incorrect’ persons. The Australian media do not seem to have chosen to investigate this aspect of the Zentai case.
Of the 4 ovens ordered, one half of one oven (i.e., 4 muffles) – as stated above – were delivered to Mogilev, 2 ovens with a total of 16 muffles, to Auschwitz and the remaining one and one half ovens were stored for disposition by the Reichsführer-SS in the Topf warehouses.[5]
Today there are no remains to be found of the tens of thousands of Jews allegedly murdered by the Einsatzgruppen at Babi Yar. The official Holocaust story claims that the Nazis sent a special team back to the site in 1943 to exhume and burn the bodies.[ix]
His memoir From Greece to Birkenau: The Crematoria Workers’ Uprising was first published by the Salonika Jewry Research Center in Tel Aviv in 1996 (English edition). He is one of three Sonderkommando members, along with Marcel Nadjari and Filip Müller, to have written their memoirs. Let’s see what this most important witness has to say.
"Statements from Mader and Nagy reportedly prompted the Hungarian authorities to ask for Zentai – then in the American zone in Germany – to be sent back….. It’s not known why Zentai was not extradited to Hungary then….. There’s no evidence that Zentai knew of the request from Hungary, or of the accusations against him….. Zentai has never directly been accused of being a member of the Nazi Party or any Hungarian affiliate."
Another prerequisite listed by Santamaria was that ‘Soviet, Yugoslav or other similar evidence should be totally disregarded unless corroborated by independent evidence clearly beyond Soviet (or similar) control.’ That, too, would stymie the attempt to deport Zentai, as the case against him rests essentially on proceedings carried out in Hungary under a communist government in 1948.
“The families must be interned in the camp together, insofar as possible, including all economically dependent children. If children are lodged in [institutions for the] education of abandoned children or elsewhere, their reunion with the family, insofar as possible, prior to arrest. In the same way, Gypsy children whose parents are dead [or] interned in a concentration camp or elsewhere must be proceeded with in the same way. To avoid overly lengthy preventive detention, the arrest of Gypsy persons must occur only when rapid transport to the concentration camp is assured.”[14]
In the table below I have summarized the above data referring to the dimensions and the capacity of the individual chambers:
PART II Holocaust and genocide denial around the world
Yet historical events are hardly a matter for the criminal courts to decide, for the revision of history is a legitimate function and exercise associated with responsible scholarly research. Moreover, even criminal law allows for the overturn of previous convictions whenever new evidence surfaces which exonerates the accused. Why, then, is only the Holocaust considered to be exempt from all normative applications of law?
So, at least to a reader familiar with this history and with the vicissitudes of advancing a career in any field subject to public approbation, Savage Continent to some extent comes off as a performance of redemptive historiography. That is, in certain of the many theaters of conflict covered by Lowe’s survey, acts of understandable vengeance by Jews against citizens of defeated Germany are presented as the revenge of conquered, and conquering, persons of indeterminate ethnicity or other motivation. Thus, for example, Salomon Morel, the infamous commandant of the post-war Zgoda/Świętochłowice concentration camp for Prussian Germans, is identifiable as Jewish only by the dispositive passage on Page 144:
Indem sie es so ausdrückte, hat eine der angesehensten Zeitungen der Welt ihre Definition des Holocaust dargelegt. Die Vernichtung von insgesamt 26 Millionen Menschen durch die Nationalsozialisten in hochmodernen Vernichtungsmaschinen ist das grausamste Verbrechen in der Geschichte der Menschheit.
In the Federal Republic today, to mention any of these Allied — or even Soviet — crimes in the same breath with the Nazis is to invite the devastating charge of attempting an Aufrechnen — an offsetting, or balancing against. The implication is that one is somehow seeking to diminish the Nazis' undying guilt for the Holocaust by pointing to the guilt of other governments for other crimes. This seems to me to be a thoroughly warped perspective.
Itzhak Nener, an Israeli national and deputy president of the Association, alluded to the California-based Institute for Historical Review as an organization “whose real aim is to deny the Holocaust.” Moreover, Nener warned that the “denial movement” has ‘tremendous sums of money” at its disposal.[31]
According to F. Müller, the alleged five "cremation pits" in this area should have measured 40-50 meters in size and 8 x 2 meters deep[116], therefore their total surface area should have been an average of 1,800 square meters. The aerial photographs of Birkenau show, by contrast, one single cremation site of approximately 50 square meters. Naturally, the "pits" of F. Müller would also have been full of water for at least 60% of their depth.
It is tempting to refer to much of Dissecting as “forensics,” and indeed a number of the investigations most definitely do delve in great depth into the physical evidence that remains (or does not remain) in the places where the crimes of the Holocaust took (or did not take) place. The forensic investigations put the details of any thriller from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle or Tom Clancy utterly to shame. These are, after all, real investigations of events that are said really to have taken place. And evidence of real events is most certainly adduced in many such cases, together with interpretations that yield the firm conclusion that the events that took place were profoundly, even diametrically opposed in effect to the events alleged by parties seeking and exercising power and influence in the post-war world. The classic example, of course, is that of Zyklon B, the insecticide used by the ton in all the camps to protect the lives of the inmates, but misrepresented by latter-day spin doctors as the means of murdering the inmates in “gas chambers” of a kind never seen before or since in the known world.
On the revisionist side of the aisle, we learn, or we are reminded, that David McCalden – the guy who played a formative role in introducing Cole to revisionist theory – was a sexual as well as intellectual outlaw who gave his wife AIDS (before dying of it himself) back when a viral load meant a one-way ticket to the morgue. We learn – or we are reminded – that Robert Faurisson, was sufficiently pinpricked by Cole’s ungovernable audacity that he huffed and puffed and spread rumors that Cole was a “World Jewish Congress infiltrator.” (Cole’s grave sin, incidentally, was to break with revisionist dogma by broadcasting his opinion that the Natzweiler gas chamber in France, unlike those on display at Auschwitz, Mauthausen, Dachau, etc., was the real deal, albeit a highly eccentric outlier in the scheme of the received mass-gassing narrative.)
According to the caption, the photograph was found in Nebe’s apartment after the war. This information is volunteered by British-Jewish Holocaust historian Gerald Reitlinger in the first English edition of his standard work[28] (Chapter 6, p. 130, unnumbered footnote). In his description of Himmler’s visit in Minsk, Reitlinger states: “This story of von dem Bach-Zelewski´s finds some confirmation in the discovery in 1949 in Nebe´s former Berlin apartment of an amateur film, showing a gas chamber operated by the exhausts of a car and a lorry” [29].
The response to this troublesome witness was complicated by the fact that Karski had been hailed as a hero and savior of Jews. He had been named “Righteous Among the Nations” and made an honorary citizen of Israel. To call him a liar would be politically inconvenient. A more elegant solution was needed, and was found: Karski had not visited Belzec, but the Izbica transit ghetto, where he witnessed a deportation to Belzec. Thus altered, Karski’s observations would no longer contradict the standard Holocaust storyline. This account was promoted by Karski’s biographers Thomas Wood and Stanislaw Jankowski[5] and rapidly gained general acceptance. Although some historians continued to repeat the older story,[6] the triumph of the new version was so complete that when Karski was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2012, the official announcement stated that Karski had “worked as a courier, entering the Warsaw ghetto and the Nazi Izbica transit camp, where he saw first-hand the atrocities occurring under Nazi occupation” without mentioning Belzec at all.[7]
The reader should keep this in mind during the upcoming German trial of John Demjanjuk for the crime of “helping to lead Jews to the gas chambers.” Indeed, this is among the ulterior reasons for the further prosecution of the unfortunate Demjanjuk. The promoters and the beneficiaries of the Holocaust ideology—International Zionism, Israel and the current German government—want to use a Demjanjuk show trial to fight the phenomenal growth of Holocaust revisionism, a movement that poses a dire threat to the Zionist government in Israel and the government subservient to Zionism in Germany.
20 November. A letter written by Stephen F. Pinter (1888-1985) is published in the weekly Deutsche Wochenschrift. In his letter, Pinter questions the veracity of a recent Associated Press report stating that the ashes of 3000 Russian, French, Yugoslav and Polish victims of the concentration camp Flossenbürg had been given a reburial. Pinter states that, according on his own investigations as a judicial magistrate following the end of the war, the total number of Flossenbürg victims amounted to no more than 300 people.
Ernst von Weizsäcker’s conviction for crimes against peace was reversed on December 12, 1949 after a series of post-trial defense motions. The new tribunal majority stated: “After a careful examination of the entire record concerning his conviction with the aggression against Czechoslovakia, we are convinced that our finding of guilt as to that crime is erroneous. We are glad to correct it. The judgment of guilt against the defendant von Weizsaecker as to Count 1 is hereby set aside and he is hereby acquitted under Count 1.” Weizsäcker’s sentence was reduced from seven to five years.[24]
Romanov reviews the testimonies of the following former inmate members of the Sonderkommando at the Birkenau crematoria: Joshua Rosenblum, Filip Müller, Henryk Tauber, Charles Bendel, Henryk Mandelbaum, Shlomo Venezia, Shlomo Dragon. He then sets forth his own arguments.
Lipstadt claims to support open discussion, “The intellectual process is rooted in the constant reevaluation of previous findings based on new information.”10 She notes however that she is not open to “debating the very fact of the Holocaust.”11 Without defining her terms, where discussion is acceptable to her and where not is seemingly unclear. It is critical to understand that Lipstadt’s book was never meant to stimulate discussion of Holocaust revisionism.  In fact, it was meant to shut it down.  The language used throughout is a “moral” language; a language of “good” and “evil.” By accusing the revisionists of anti-Semitism and fascism, Lipstadt painted an entire group of people and their writings as evil. This tactic was meant to shut down any consideration of the arguments of revisionists and essentially to paint them (in 2016 terms) as “deplorable.”
Ilan Pappé writes that what the Israeli army has been doing in the Gaza Strip since 2006 can appropriately be called an incremental genocide. Israeli military operations have been steadily escalating in every area. Ilan Pappé writes:[29]
As to the ”Russenaktion“ at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, several important questions remain unanswered: The beginning of the action; the number of transports; the housing of the new arrivals until their execution; the cremation of the bodies and especially the number of victims. If we look at the various drafts of the ESC, we see that this subject is only being adequately dealt with (at least as far as the space devoted to this issue is concerned) from Shn-4D. But even in the later drafts, the description of this action is extremely vague and contributes virtually nothing to the clarification of the above-mentioned points.
This is impossible as the camp had been evacuated in January of that year. If Steinberg was indeed 17 when he was sent to Auschwitz, this was in 1942 and he could not have spent 3 years in the first camp (near Radom) as he claims. The confusion continues with one last remark:
From 2001 to 2009 the situation only worsened in France and the rest of the world for those upholding the belief in “the Holocaust” and, particularly, in the Nazi gas chambers. Proof and examples of this are to be found on my blog. I shall mention here only one bit of evidence and one example, both concerning the researcher whom I sometimes call “the last of the Mohicans of the Holocaust cause.” I mean the aforementioned R. J. van Pelt, professor of architecture at the University of Waterloo (Ontario, Canada). After the Irving-Lipstadt trial, he had not wanted to remain only “morally certain.” On the contrary: he continued his research. Alas, like his French predecessor, the pharmacist Jean-Claude Pressac, he would have to surrender. On December 27, 2009 the coup de grace was given to the myth of the gas chambers at Auschwitz. That day a reporter for the Toronto Star revealed that, for R. J. van Pelt, there was little sense in preserving the Auschwitz-Birkenau complex. Speaking of what we were supposed to know about the camp (that is, for example, that it had possessed gas chambers for mass killings), the professor said: “Ninety-nine percent of what we know we do not actually have the physical evidence to prove.” For him it was better to let nature take its course at Auschwitz instead of spending so much money on the conservation of buildings, ruins or material objects.
[2] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 177.
In Crematorium III, according to Pressac, 95 openings were made (evidently 47 on one side and 48 on the opposite wall), one every 60 centimeters, in the fresh-air duct and 45 openings (22 on one side and 23 on the opposite wall), one every 1.5 meters, in the stale-air duct.[10]
Of course, she has the right not to talk to or even be seen with people she dislikes. She even has the right not to address arguments she detests, which is exactly her approach, as she writes on page 33. Stop this video to read it. If you do, note again that she mentions only “reams of testimony,” but no documents or physical evidence.
Dr. Robert Faurisson was probably the first person to point out that every study of the alleged German execution gas chambers using Zyklon B should commence with a study of the American execution gas chambers. Faurisson began his research in 1977 by obtaining information from six American penitentiaries: San Quentin, California; Jefferson City, Missouri; Santa Fe, New Mexico; Raleigh, North Carolina; Baltimore, Maryland; and Florence, Arizona. During the next several years, Faurisson’s numerous published articles always referred to the American gas chambers. Faurisson also visited the gas chamber in Baltimore, Maryland in September 1979, and obtained eight photographs of the chamber and additional documentation.[29]
As Bradley reveals in Confessions of a Holocaust Revisionist, from adolescence his mission was to be a soldier. Unlike a myriad of youths from his generation, Bradley’s exemplar was not the combat hero of Hollywood film, but a self-sacrificing champion from over a thousand years before, Roland, whose chanson roused his soul like his hero’s belated horn. As did the lord of the Breton March in the epic version, Bradley came to strive to be not just a warrior, but a warrior of high ideals and irreproachable comportment. Clausewitz’s assessment of war as a calculated act of policy was foreign to Bradley’s soldierly creed. Good in a crisis as he could be, throughout his career Bradley often called to mind, more so than even Roland, the ever dauntless man of La Mancha.
I myself visited the Treblinka camp in spring of 1942 to acquaint myself with the conditions. The exterminations were conducted using the following method: There were small chambers the size of rooms which were filled with gases from vehicle engines through feeding pipes. This method was unreliable, because the engines consisted of old captured vehicles and tanks, which therefore failed frequently. Hence, the transports could not be processed in such a way that an exact implementation of the operational plan, this was about the evacuation of the Warsaw Ghetto, could be carried out. According to statements made by the camp leader, some 800,000 people had been gassed at the TREBLINKA camp in the course of half a year. For all the reasons given above, HIMMLER explained to me that the only option to expand these facilities so that they matched the general plan was at AUSCHWITZ, first as a railway junction of 4 transiting lines, and also because the sparsely populated camp area could be completely cordoned off. For these reasons, he had decided to move the mass extermination to AUSCHWITZ, and I had to immediately start with measures to carry this out. He wished [to see] exact construction plans conforming to these guidelines within 4 weeks. He stated moreover: This task is so difficult and serious that he cannot charge just anyone with it[.] He already intended to entrust another higher SS leader with this task, but during the construction phase it would not be good if 2 leaders were to give orders side by side. Hence, I received the clear instruction to carry out the extermination of the transports sent by the RSHA. Regarding the sequence of the incoming transports, I had to get in touch with SS Obersturmbannführer [Lieutenant Colonel] EICHMANN of Office 4 (which was headed by Gruppenführer [Lieutenant General] MÜLLER). At the same time, the transports of Russian PoWs from the regions of the Gestapo headquarters BRESLAU, TROPPAU and KATTOWITZ also arrived, which had to be exterminated at Auschwitz on HIMMLER’s order, written direction of the Gestapo chief in charge. Since the newly to be erected cremation facilities were finished only in 1942, the inmates had to be gassed in provisionally erected gassing rooms, and then cremated in pits in the ground. I herewith describe the procedure of the gassing procedure [sic]:
Now, the showerheads no longer supply the deadly gas, but it emanates from the floor. There is indeed a cellar room below the gas chamber, but we have no evidence at all that it was a ‘Zyklon mixing room,’ or that such gas entered the room from below. Today there are six floor vents in the room, and by all accounts they are, and have always been, actual water drains (photo 3). This is logical, because the room was likely built from the start as an ordinary inmate shower facility.
As a cover, in order not to rouse the suspicions of either Dr TESCH or Herr ZAUN, an interpreter of this Team was initially ordered to remain in the room, being summoned out by a bogus telephone call. Immediately he had left the room Dr TESCH and Herr ZAUN’s conversation dropped to a whisper which could not be understood; but certain passages were recorded which revealed that Dr TESCH had handed over to ZAUN his wallet containing RM 3,700 and certain personal possessions to be given to Frau TESCH. The failure of this ruse to obtain any concrete evidence, owing to the fact that the microphone apparatus was not sufficiently tuned for whispers, was unfortunate. However, there is little doubt that quite a considerable amount of whispering was interspersed between normal conversation, and great suspicion fell upon both these persons. At the subsequent interrogation of both of them, done independently, they both strongly denied that any whispering took place. The possibility of ZAUN being re-imprisoned was seriously considered, but it was felt that he still was blameless as regards the main crime that was being investigated; further, he would be of less value to the Team in the conduct of the investigation if in prison than he would be at large.[144]
In 1988 I struggled in vain to have this point of view properly and fully discussed in the major newspapers and other public forums in Australia. In 2012 I cannot help wondering if the main reason for the proliferation in recent years of war crimes trials under the International Criminal Court or other international tribunals is not arranged in order to ensure that when a world government (desired by certain elites) is in place, anyone leading a revolt against that tyranny will know that, if defeated, he will face a war crimes tribunal and condign punishment. There may be a wolf in sheep’s clothing in this development.
As shown above, the shipment of Jewish convoys to the “death camps” from locations east of them, while posing a number of questions which still need to be resolved, does not undermine the transit-camp hypothesis, as provisional explanations for all such transports can be furnished. On the other hand, we may note that, despite the claim that many tens of thousands of Jews were deported from as far away as France, Greece, Macedonia and the Netherlands in order to be “gassed” en masse at Treblinka and Sobibór, for some inexplicable reason it never occurred to the German authorities to send even a portion of the hundreds of thousands of Jews still remaining in the western Ukrainian provinces of Volhynia and Podolia in the summer of 1942 to the Reinhardt camps, despite the fact that the ghettos in this region were located only a short train ride from these camps. This mystery has been discussed by orthodox Holocaust historian Shmuel Spector:
Dieses Problem ist zudem nicht bloß eine Frage von Journalisten und Propagandisten, die wilde Zahlen erfinden. Im Jahr 2015, in einem Buch über die forensische Untersuchung von Massenmordstätten des Holocaust, schrieb eine britische Archäologin, die mit den führenden Wissenschaftlern auf diesem Gebiet mehrere Jahre zusammengearbeitet hatte:[14]
Martin Petrov, LLM, is a former chief of the Office of the Registrar at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), where he oversaw external communication and outreach, among other things, and maintained extensive contacts with the countries of the former Yugoslavia.
The warmongering that led to World War II was increasing in Great Britain. Hitler was dismayed at the steady stream of hate propaganda directed at Germany. In a speech given in Saarbrücken on October 9, 1938, Hitler said: “…All it would take would be for Mr. Duff Cooper or Mr. Eden or Mr. Churchill to come to power in England instead of Chamberlain, and we know very well that it would be the goal of these men to immediately start a new world war. They do not even try to disguise their intents; they state them openly.”[54]
In the same interview, Ferencz admits that he observed the torturing and execution of a captured Nazi at a concentration camp[15]:
In 1935 there lived 3,144 Jews in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. During the first years of the war most of them fled the country, and by July 1941 there were only some 800 left. On 16 October 1941 a train with 334 Luxembourg Jews departed for the Łódź Ghetto. A few dozen of these Jews were later sent on to Auschwitz or the Lublin District. During 1942 the remaining Jews in Luxembourg were deported to the Theresienstadt Ghetto.[65]
All ovens at Sachsenhausen, both mobile and stationary ones, were one-muffle ovens. The technical experts based their calculation of the daily capacity of these ovens on the ludicrous assumption that six (!) bodies had been simultaneously introduced into a muffle. Nevertheless, the cremation allegedly required only 60 minutes in the stationary ovens and only 30 minutes in the field crematoria! Apart from the fact that the muffles were much too small to allow for the simultaneous insertion of six bodies, this method would not have accelerated the process of cremation at all. Even today the incineration of an adult body in a muffle requires on an average at least 80 minutes.
“The mortuary (Leichenkeller)[6] of the first Oswiecim crematorium […] was fitted with two gas-proof doors.”
the Baldwin and Chamberlain Governments … had ensured that Britain was the first country in the world to deploy a fully integrated system of air defence based on radar detection of incoming aircraft and ground control of fighters … Churchill's contribution had been to pour scorn on radar when he was in opposition in the 1930s.[70 ]
Fundamentalists have their answers at the ready. By the end of 1942, the Nazis allegedly realized that they had made a huge mistake. So many mass graves, with so many bodies, left a vast amount of incriminating evidence. (Why they would have worried about this, we are never told.) Therefore they initiated “Action 1005”—a program to destroy the evidence of their mass shootings. Longerich (2010: 410) explains: “In June 1943 the commandos began to open the mass graves in the occupied Soviet territories, first in the Ukraine, then in White Russia, and finally in the Baltic states.” These teams were “extraordinarily thorough,” he says:
It must be noted that Count Nikolai Tolstoy, who testified on Demjanjuk’s behalf for three days in Israel, told a Melbourne audience on March 4 that not only he but all the other experts consulted were confident that the card is a forgery, and he made it utterly clear that he had no confidence in the Israeli court’s turning aside of such evidence and that he could not imagine such a position being taken in a British or Australian court.
The first known mention of an increase in the capacity of the Kriegsgefangenenlager from 125,000 to 150,000 POWs is found in a letter from Kammler to SS-Hauptsturmführer Karl Bischof, head of the Auschwitz Zentralbauleitung[43], dated 22 June 1942:
“One of the three doors of an alleged NS gas chamber for the execution of hundreds of persons at once with Zyklon B (hydrogen cyanide) (Krematorium I, Auschwitz, Poland, beginning of the 40’s).”
False, because only one single cremation site existed in this area, with a surface area of approximately 50 square meters. This single site appears both in the photograph mentioned above, and in the aerial photograph of Birkenau taken by the British on 23 August 1944, which is precisely the second photograph in the book on the theme of the "cremation pits"[114]. The column of smoke which can be seen beside crematorium V originates precisely from this site, as I have demonstrated with enlargements of the available photographs[115].
The 8-muffle ovens were designed for Mogilev, where coke was difficult to procure, and were therefore equipped with wood-burning fire boxes (Holzfeuerungen) without doors, which Topf, for the ovens sent to Auschwitz, had adapted to coke-burning grates using sloping and horizontal short-beam bars. In view of the very short useful life of the sloping short-beams, Topf advised the Zentralbauleitung to order grate bars intended for reserve coke and refractory-clad furnace doors. Due to transport problems, moreover, the ovens for Mogilev were not insulated; Topf was prepared to supply the insulation material at the specific request of the Zentralbauleitung.[10]
“[T]he number of non-Jews who died in the concentration camps is no more than half a million, Bauer said.” (Ron Kampeas, JTA, 31 January 2017)
In 2008, supporters of the exterminationist view of National Socialist racial policy held a meeting at Oranienburg near Berlin, the aim of which was to furnish “new evidence” for genocide in gas chambers on a massive scale, a theory that actually has no documentary or material support. A collection of articles edited by Günter Morsch and Bertrand Perz, two undistinguished “Holocaust Scholars”, appeared three years later under the title Neue Studien zu Nationalsozialistischen Massentötungen durch Giftgas[1](New Studies on National Socialist Mass Killing by Poison Gas); it contained the texts of the papers presented at the meeting, presumably edited and extended as is normally the case for such works.
But things take a bizarre turn just a few months later. Rather than addressing the monumental disposal problem, Globocnik and team instead make two inexplicable decisions: (1) they increase the gassing capacity at both camps, and (2) they decide to build a third camp (Treblinka), of equal capacity (3 chambers), again with no disposal capability.
[32] Mattogno, Carlo, “Dr. Mengele’s ‘Medical Experiments’ on Twins in the Birkenau Gypsy Camp,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 5, No. 4, 2013 https://inconvenienthistory.com/5/4/3223.
It likewise did not interest Evans that David Irving’s arrests were attributable to the fact that numerous countries make it a felony to dispute facts of the so-called Holocaust. This reflects poorly on the regimes Irving was arrested in rather than on Irving’s qualities as a historian. The question is: What kind of historical truth needs criminal sanctions to protect it? The Holocaust story would not need criminal sanctions to protect it if it were solidly based in historiographic evidence.
The Holocaust story also originally claimed that about 4 million Jews died at Auschwitz-Birkenau. As late as 1988, on page 19 of the official Auschwitz State Museum Guidebook, the official figure of 4 million Jews killed at Auschwitz-Birkenau is affirmed. The 4 million Jews who perished at Auschwitz-Birkenau had also been used by the Soviet State Extraordinary Commission for the Investigation of Nazi Crimes, the Supreme National Tribunal in Poland, and the IMT in Nuremberg. The estimate of 4 million Jews who died at Auschwitz-Birkenau was based on the evidence of hundreds of surviving prisoners and the opinion of experts.
Having earned his PhD in history and philology at Heidelberg in 1921, Goebbels first encountered Hitler in Munich the next year. He joined the NSDAP in 1924, and began editing an early Nazi newspaper in 1925. Goebbels quickly earned the attention of Hitler, and was named Gauleiter (district leader) of Berlin in October 1926. He founded a major Nazi periodical, Der Angriff, in 1927, and by 1929 was named Reich Propaganda Minister. Goebbels was thus well-placed by the time Hitler and the NSDAP acceded to power in 1933. He was the most intelligent and well-educated of the Nazi leaders.[2] In a very short time Goebbels, along with Hitler and Göring, came to comprise the leadership ‘trinity’ of the early Nazi party. As the war progressed Göring fell from grace, leaving Goebbels as the de facto second-in-command of the Third Reich. He eclipsed even Himmler, who was in the end more an enforcer than leader. Into the 1940s, Goebbels “was the most important and influential man after Hitler…[B]y 1943, he was virtually running the country while Hitler was running the war.”[3] Thus Goebbels was uniquely situated to comment on, and help resolve, the Jewish Question (Judenfrage). To this end, his diaries are absolutely essential for understanding the Jewish holocaust.
In the context of the present study, we need not concern ourselves with the particulars of this situation. Fact is that, when Himmler visited Auschwitz on July 17 and 18, 1942, he saw his plans to turn this camp into a main hub of Germany’s exploitation of slave labor for the war effort seriously threatened. In fact, Himmler saw the camp at its worse, with the typhus epidemic raging out of control, with no garrison physician in charge, with few, if any sanitary installations, with no capacity to cremate the victims, with corpses piling up everywhere by the hundreds.
“On 19 July 1942, on a visit to Poland, Himmler ordered that the ’resettlement of the entire Jewish Population of the General Government’ should be ’carried out and completed by 31 December 1942.’ According to Himmler, a ’comprehensive clearing out’ was necessary. This was a euphemistic way of saying that he wanted virtually all of these Jews to be murdered by the end of the year.” (p. 295)
“1) I order that all Jews still remaining in ghettos in the Ostland area be collected in concentration camps. 2) I prohibit the withdrawal of Jews from concentration camps for [outside] work from August 1, 1943. 3) A concentration camp is to be built near Riga to which will be transferred the entire manufacture of clothing and equipment now operated by the Wehrmacht outside. All private firms will be eliminated. The workshops are to be solely concentration camp workshops. The Chief of the SS Economic and Administrative Main Office is requested to see to it that there will be no shortfall in the production required by the Wehrmacht as the result of this reorganization. 4) Inmates of the Jewish ghettos who are not required are to be evacuated to the East. 5) As many male Jews as possible are to be taken to the concentration camp in the oil-shale area for the mining of oil-shale. 6) The date set for the reorganization of the concentration camps is August 1, 1943.”
The interpretation of the letter and/or the memo varies, depending on which of the books written by Pressac and/or van Pelt the reader consults. In his book on the Auschwitz crematoria, Pressac does not discuss the contradictory aspect of the two documents in detail and simply mentions the slip-up of the “Vergasungskeller.” In their joint chapter on the crematoria, in the Anatomy book (p. 227), Pressac and van Pelt again gloss over the situation and do not state explicitly that Kammler was told a lie with respect to the readiness of the crematorium. They say, however, that it was Kammler who spoke of a “Vergasungskeller,” in a letter dated 29 February 1943 by which he promoted Bischoff to a higher rank. Thus, there seems to exist some confusion as to who wrote what, when and to whom, especially as 1943 was not a leap year and thus had no 29 February.
The American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) also actively works to advance pro-Israel policies and support a strong U.S.-Israel relationship.[41] All American politicians are so aware of AIPAC’s power that they would never publicly question the official Holocaust narrative.[42]
“Discussions with SS First Lieutenant Schwarz about employment of inmates [Haeftlingseinsatz]. At present this suffers very much on account of the fact that, in accordance with the newest directive, all Poles are taken away from the Auschwitz concentration camp and are put into camps in Germany proper. Their place is taken by Jews from all European countries. Their number is to be increased to 100,000 persons. The result of this action is that nearly every day different workers are being employed on the individual construction sites.”[106]
Several other studies authored by Dr. Fanghänel under the pseudonym Klaus Schwensen only appeared in German. Of special interest is his analysis of the so-called “Lachout Document” (Vierteljahreshefte für freie Geschichtsforschung, 2/2004). According to this document, which purportedly emanated from a “Militärpolizeilicher Dienst” in Vienna, no homicidal gassings had taken place in the concentration camps of the “Altreich” (Germany in its 1937 borders), nor at the Mauthausen camp. Unfortunately, the alleged authenticity of this document was tenaciously defended by several revisionists for many years.
No Holocaust-related events of significance.
During the same period, German revisionist historian Ingrid Weckert, who was then studying the alleged extermination camp Chelmno, asked Yad Vashem about the origin of this picture; however the Israeli memorial was unable to answer her question[13]. In 1999, Ingrid Weckert published an article about Chelmno[14] which may or not have prompted Halbersztadt to publish the e-mail correspondence between himself, Zamosz and the List HOLOCAUS in 2005. This step was obviously taken in mutual agreement with the aforementioned ARC Team, a circle of amateur historians who focus on the history of the Action Reinhard Camps. Apparently the ARC Team wanted to present an up-to-date view of the “extermination camps” and the “gas vans”, which implied some cautious revisions of the traditional picture of the events, as “evidence” which had turned out to be untenable was jettisoned. We already pointed out that Wiesenthal’s picture of a “gas van” camouflaged as a Red Cross vehicle was not presented by the ARC people. The damaged truck of Kolo (Fig. 4) was equally absolved from the suspicion of having served as a gas van: On its website, the ARC team published the aforementioned e-mail correspondence, but without any comment. There was only a short remark, that the photo of the KHD wreck of Kolo could “possibly not show a gas van.” Most readers presumably failed to appreciate the significance of Halbersztadt´s research.
And yet, our intrepid reporter David Goldman has the gall to write, “Those who have conflated the only [!] wartime concentration camp without any verifiable data, with scientifically proven [!] Holocaust facts, have done immeasurable harm to Jewish history.” He is either ignorant of the truth or deliberately covering up the reality. The true “immeasurable harm” has been done by his fellow Jews and their intellectual lackeys who, for decades, have promoted an unsustainable myth of Jewish suffering.
In such a judicial climate, is it any wonder that German officials on trial for alleged war crimes “confessed” to the existence of the Sobibor “gas chambers?”
These eyewitness statements that prussic acid was streamed through shower heads into homicidal gas chambers at Mauthausen are not credible. Germar Rudolf writes:
DuBois also said it had been reported to him that one of the judges had said: “There are too many Jews on the prosecution.” DuBois thought this statement indicated a judicial bias against the prosecution.[21] However, while not a Jew, DuBois was active in Jewish causes. He was instrumental in forming the War Refugee Board, and vigorously promoted the official Holocaust narrative.[22]
When the German occupation of Denmark began in April 1940, there lived approximately 6,500 in the country. In early autumn 1943, 447 Danish Jews were deported to Theresienstadt, but none of them were ever sent on to Auschwitz. In a massive underground operation in October 1943, 5,919 Danish Jews were taken in boats to neutral Sweden. Thus not a single Danish Jew reached the “extermination camps”.[63]
It should furthermore be stated that he concerns himself with the extremely meager description of the cremation pits supplied by Müller at the Auschwitz trial:
Although the result of a long history, the Internet largely went public in the 1990s. Revisionists were there from the start. In August 1991, Dan Gannon began his BBS (bulletin-board service) "Banished CPU."[21] Throughout 1992, a heated debate on the Holocaust controversy raged on discussion forums on the GEnie and Prodigy systems.[22] The most important discussions, however, began taking place on the Usenet newsgroup alt.revisionism.
On p. 188, a witness reports that "the Rada [Ukrainian Parliament] has recognized the genocide of the Ukrainian people during the famine of 1932 and 1933", the so-called Holodomor, "the terrible famine which struck the Ukraine in 1932 and 1933. This was the worst catastrophe which ever struck the Ukrainian nation in modern history, since it involved the deaths of several million people (estimates vary widely). According to various historians and the Ukrainian government itself, the famine was intentionally caused by the policies of Soviet Dictator Stalin, in such a way as to enable consideration of the famine a true and proper genocide."[43]
[15] Rudolf, Germar, “A Brief History of Forensic Examinations of Auschwitz,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 20, No. 2, March/April 2001, p. 9.
So while the authors of the Technical Report spoke of three mobile ovens, and while the first draft Shn-1 mentioned four of them, their number had grown to eight in the final version Shn-6, which means that the capacity of the crematoria had again been doubled, at least on paper. At that time the ESC in Moscow claimed that no fewer than 100,000 prisoners had perished at Sachsenhausen. [33] As no mass graves had been detected, this implied that the bodies of the victims had been cremated, which was only possible if the capacity of the ovens had been up to this task. It should be borne in mind that in the German translation of the “Ziereis confession” the number of ovens is not mentioned; the only information about the crematoria reads as following:
[1] Encyclopedia Judaica, 1971 edition, s.v. “Holocaust.”
Even if such wall paint had been available during the war, it is not likely that German camp authorities would have used it exclusively in their delousing chambers. And this would have been true not only at Auschwitz and Birkenau,[18] but also at the Majdanek and Stutthof camps, whose delousing chambers show an identical Iron Blue discoloration found nowhere else in the camp.[19]
In its English language edition, the Israeli newspaper Ha’aretz reported on 18 April 2004 that there were still 687,000 "Holocaust survivors" around – which means that there must have been several millions in 1945. How does this fact square with an extermination policy, Dr. Lindtner?
Minister of Finance Schwerin von Krosigk and Secretary of the Foreign Office Ernst von Weizsäcker were also examined during that trial. On the Final Solution, von Krosigk stated (p. 406):
The Institute's belief that Jesus "fought to destroy Judaism" is an overstatement. Nonetheless, there is historical evidence that Jesus Christ was a militant opponent of the ancient Jewish religious authorities. The four Gospels unanimously insist that he was a severe critic of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Historian Michael Grant argues that, though their details vary, the four Gospels are also unanimous that Christ forcibly drove out the money changers and traders who thronged the Jerusalem Temple precincts: the surprising character of these reports suggest that they reflect an authentic historical event. If this is so, not only was Jesus violating Rome's public order, he was also attacking the Jewish priestly aristocracy, which controlled Temple affairs and derived profits from the money-changers tables he drove out. [122]
German and Jewish legal strategists alike had been closely monitoring the Lüftl case, and their subsequent disappointment spurred them on to greater efforts to further tighten existing loopholes pursuant to “Holocaust denial” laws in Germany.
Primo Levi was a Jewish Communist who one would think would have been executed at Auschwitz-Birkenau. However, along with about 7,000 to 8,000 additional disabled Jews, Levi was left behind in Auschwitz. Although the Germans could have executed Levi and the other Jews in a few days, the Germans let them survive to tell their story about Auschwitz-Birkenau.[8]
By the early to mid-90s, Cole would be riding a wave of public notoriety as an intrepid, Hollywood-bred independent researcher and documentary filmmaker making the rounds on daytime TV talk shows professing informed skepticism about the received history of the Holocaust. In those days, which I remember too well, Cole could be seen alongside IHR spokesman Mark Weber on the Montel Williams Show (where, in an ironic twist recounted in Republican Party Animal, his appearance led to the reunion of two Holocaust survivors – brothers who had lost contact after the war, each assuming the worst about the other’s fate). He appeared with CODOH founder Bradley Smith and Skeptic editor Michael Shermer on a rather tense episode of Donahue. He even went on the Morton Downey Junior Show, where he suffered the late host’s outrageous nicotine-expectorating spleen with pluck.
As regards Crematorium III, the description of the undressing room is almost non-existent, that of the gas chamber, non-existent. Historical problems essential to confuting "negationism", such as those of the Zyklon B introduction devices, vanish in an embarrassing silence; from the book, one learns neither the dimensions of the gas chamber, nor how it was designed[262], or equipped or how the apertures of the induction and exhaust system were arranged, nor how one accessed the gas chamber from the undressing room. No description of the reinforced concrete lid on the Leichenkeller1 in the north courtyard of the crematorium, whether it was on ground level or above ground, no description of the "chimney", and possibly how many there were or how they were arranged.
The case of the “gassing” of 1,500 persons and more in Crematorium II would also have happened many times more in the year 1943. The case of the Hungarian Jews’ deportation in 1944 was mentioned earlier.
Photo: Gerasimow, May/June 1945; published by Gedenkstätte und Museum Sachsenhausen, Informationsblatt Nr. 24 “Soviet Sachsenhausen Trial 1947,” Oranienburg 1999.
European scholars who have questioned the Holocaust story have suffered tremendous hardships. For example, French revisionist Dr. Robert Faurisson lost his professorship in 1991, was viciously beaten by thugs who were never caught or prosecuted, and was the defendant in numerous law suits. Faurisson believed that revisionist historians are up against a religion. Faurisson said: “The belief in the Holocaust is a religion. We have to fight against this religion, but I don’t know how to fight a religion. Revisionists can look at demographic figures, historical documents, forensic evidence, etc., but there is no example in history of reason destroying a religion.”[17]
In fact, it seems likely that Mayer simply does not believe that there were anything approaching tens of millions of victims of the Soviet regime. He writes, for instance, of "an iron nexus between absolute war and large-scale political murder in eastern Europe." But most of the large-scale Stalinist political murders occurred when the Soviet Union was at peace. The massive upheavals, with their accompanying terror and mass killings, that characterized Soviet history in the 1920s and 30s, Mayer refers to in almost unbelievably anodyne terms as "the general transformation of political and civil society." In other words, Mayer gives every evidence of being a Ukrainian-famine, Great-Terror, and gulag "revisionist." This is an aspect of Mayer's book that the reviewers in the mainstream press had an obligation to point out but omitted to do so.
The construction of the concrete-block "memorial" on the former site of Treblinka II begins. Olga Lengyel's Auschwitz memoirs Five Chimneys are published in London. Rudolf Höss's memoirs are published in English and French.
Germar Rudolf, a degreed chemist, expanded on Leuchter’s work by producing the Rudolf Report in the spring of 1992. The Rudolf Report, which has been updated and revised several times, focused on engineering and chemical aspects of the alleged homicidal gas operations at Auschwitz and Birkenau. Rudolf observed in his on-site examinations that all of the delousing facilities at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek have one thing in common: their walls are permeated with Prussian Blue. Not only the inner surfaces, but even the outside walls (through soakage) and the mortar between the bricks of the delousing chambers have Prussian Blue staining. Nothing of this sort can be observed in or around any of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz and Birkenau.
As time passed and with the loosening of travel restrictions and communistic rigidity, the former concentration camps evolved some tourist trappings. People could travel to them - both west and east, tour their museums, and be guided through their facilities, both original and in postwar mockup. They could ask questions and ponder the significance of their surroundings. A small but determined sub-category of visitor known as 'revisionist' also inspected some of these camps, particularly Auschwitz, and even took forensic samples of the original structures which supposedly served as gassing facilities. The resultantly published work of Fred Leuchter, Germar Rudolf, and others, demonstrated that the chemical residues analyzed from these facilities were not consistent with the official account. Or put another way, the alleged mass gassings almost certainly did not take place. In consequence, the process of historical revisionism dictated that the numbers be dramatically reduced. A wide variety of other objections, not just the chemical residues of Zyklon B, necessitated the change in number, but at least the change did occur.
At Nuremberg, the Soviet prosecution submitted more than 500 such ESC reports to the court whereupon they were registered as “IMT Document USSR-###”. The Germans were indicted with four types of crimes: 1. Participation in a conspiracy for the accomplishment of a crime against peace; 2. Planning, initiating and waging a war of aggression; 3. War crimes; 4. Crimes against humanity. Each of the four victorious powers that staged the trial presented evidence for one of these indictments, the fourth type (“Crimes against humanity”) being assigned to the Soviet Union (crimes in the East) and France (crimes in the West).
That the media may be to blame for an unhealthy situation of covert censorship to have developed in recent decades is suggested by behavior of The Age during the recent controversy. On 14th May the paper published a dramatic front page story headed “Holocaust denier backs Brandis race hate law” and sub-headed “The notorious Fredrick Töben may soon be free to deny this happened.” “This” was a photograph of prisoners in striped prison uniform behind barbed wire in what was evidently a German concentration camp. Now Töben has never denied that there were Nazi concentration camps in which prisoners were kept behind barbed wire and made to wear striped prison uniforms. However, when a letter was submitted pointing this out, The Age refused to publish it. Indeed, both The Age and The Australian declined during the national debate to publish any article speaking well of Holocaust revisionism, although I submitted several.
In other words, it is “racist and extremist” for non-Jewish Europeans to be the least bit concerned about any adverse effects that the Holocaust ideology might have on the European identity.
This is a camp that was once unsurpassed in its horror, but now has fallen mightily in the rankings. The NYT first reported on Majdanek in July 1943. They wrote that “the German murder toll in Poland is reaching a new high…including 1.8 million Jews [in all camps]”—according to the Polish Minister of Home Affairs.[40] He tells of men, women, and children “deported to the Majdanek death camp in the Lublin district, where they were slaughtered in masses in death chambers.” On two days in July, “more than 3,000 persons were murdered in gas chambers. Such executions are taking place every day.”
As I told you before, the most serious accusation against me is the following: “Dissemination of negationist ideologies”; this isn't a crime in Italy, but as far as anyone can tell, I stand accused of... "lèse Holocaust". I'll gloss over P.M. Tescaroli's crass ignorance; he seems to know nothing about Holocaust revisionism (it's not an ideology, but an extremely strict method of historical research), I would, however, like to dwell on the obvious bad faith of a few system hacks who, following in the footprints of Marco Pasqua (the Nazi-busting visionary who joined a civil action as part of the trial), write so many totally stupid things without the slightest shame, that they make me smile, even in my cell.
Q. I see, Dr DROSIHN. We won’t get anywhere like that. I had thought you would like to speak, but as you are not doing that, we must proceed differently with you; for we want to know what the firm had to do with the gassing of men. You know the firm’s position today, as well as yours, and that of the other gentlemen, Dr TESCH and WEINBACHER? Your sphere of activity was mostly in the East, such as AUSCHWITZ, RIGA, LUBLIN, ORANIENBURG, and all those places are now under Russian authority. We shall be forced to pass you on to the Russians who now deal with such cases and probably employ other methods to make you speak.
This document[23] is the finished copy of the version Shn-4D enlarged by the fragment Shn-5 (illustration 1). The size of Shn-4 plus the subdivision into chapters, remain unchanged. Date and signature are lacking. We may safely assume that Shn-6 was the final version presented to Vyshinsky by the office of the ESC. As the preceding draft (Shn-4D) is dated 29. IX. 45, Shn-6 was most probably finished in early October 1945. The heading reads: “Report of the Extraordinary State Commission for ascertaining and investigating crimes perpetrated by the German Fascist Invaders. About the annihilation of citizens of the USSR, England, France, Poland, Holland, Belgium, Hungary and other states by the German authorities at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp.”
A photocopy of version HB-3 can be found at the archives of Sachsenhausen.[17] The report is dated 31 May 1945 and is therefore the earliest surviving German version. The length of the report (32 pages) is the same as in the later versions. It is only signed by Hellmut Bock and four other (Communist) prisoners, all of them German nationals.
Turning to Holocaust revisionism, it is clear that its message can instill hate in others. Most people develop unkind feelings against the messenger, but there may also be some who develop unkind feelings against individuals or groups who are most visibly spreading the orthodox Holocaust narrative, are profiting from it, or are opposing its revision by at times quite violent means, Jews most prominently among them. Only in a minority of cases, however, will those unkind feelings amount to hatred. The revisionist message as such, however, does not contain anything about attitudes toward anyone. It is merely about reassessing (claimed) historical events in the light of new, overlooked or re-evaluated evidence. Of course, there are writings by revisionists and their supporters that deal with attitudes toward others, but that is a separate issue, or at least it should be.
For more than fifty years Jewish scholars have spent hundreds of millions of dollars to document each Jewish victim of the Nazi Holocaust. The Nazis were German, obsessed with paperwork and recordkeeping. Yet only 3 million names have been collected and many of them died of natural causes. So why is it heresy to doubt that fewer than 6 million Jews were murdered in the Second World War?
…taking a cue, perhaps, from Hitler. The remainder of the year includes comments again consistent with removal, and no evidence of contemplated murder. The mention of typhus (December 6) is significant; as we know, this was undoubtedly the cause of death for many in the ghettos and camps, both Jews and non-Jews.
A notable exception is the gassing technician Edmund Josef Marso who visited Stutthof in November 1944, at a time when homicidal gassings were supposedly going on.[197] Marso, however, stated that he had not heard anything about homicidal gassing in Stutthof, and indeed that he had first heard about homicidal gassings in concentration camps through the English radio. He also mentioned that there was an epidemic of spotted fever when he was in the camp, and that he had seen some 20 bodies lying near the crematorium, which the SS sergeant accompanying him had told him were victims of the typhus epidemic, and were to be cremated.[198] Marso’s account also confirms that the Stutthof gas chamber was still being used for delousing during the period in which it was supposedly used for homicidal gassing.
Thirty-odd years have passed since I was a bookseller on Hollywood Boulevard, but my conviction about the importance of intellectual freedom remains today what it was then. In the 1960s I went to court to uphold the right of students to read radical literary works. I am no less convinced today that students have the right to read every research paper that interests them, on any historical controversy whatever, including every single word ever written about the gas-chamber controversy!
“There are horrible rumors, namely that all the transports supposedly going to Vienna or to inside the Third Reich are actually going to a horrible camp in Auschwitz.”[140]
Q. Auschwitz took in 1943 12000 kgs. of the gas. Would you have been surprised if you had heard that?
It is not just the international Jewish-Zionist lobby that wants to benefit from another Demjanjuk “Holocaust” trial. The government of Germany, installed upon a prostrate German people by the victorious Allies, believes it gets the imprint of legitimacy from these Holocaust trials. As mainstream historian of Jewish-German relations, Jeffrey Herf, noted: “The Auschwitz trial conducted in Frankfurt-am-Main in 1964, as well as trials of those who had participated in murders in the Einsatzgruppen and at the extermination camps in Belzec, Treblinka, Sobibor, Chelmo, and Maidanek, offered further details to the West German public about the Holocaust and the death camps in Poland.”[127]
An intrepid Israeli blogger named Rafi Farber recently aired his well-founded musings to the effect that the war waged against Germany from 1939 to 1945 to a great extent actually caused what now is described in six million different ways as “the Holocaust.” Farber’s country is one of many in which “Holocaust denial” is a crime; that some zealot would charge him with that crime for his proposition lies well within my imagination. His “armor” against such attacks includes not only that he is an observant Jew who made aliyah from the United States, but further that he does not claim to be a historian and accordingly is not subject to the institutional pressures that bear on virtually every historian in the world who enjoys the advantage of drawing a salary.
Martin became associated with the Institute of Historical Review throughout the 1980’s and became a member of the Editorial Advisory Board for their publication, The Journal of Historical Review. He spoke at several of the IHR’s annual revisionist conferences. His The Man Who Invented Genocide: The Public Career and Consequences of Raphael Lemkin, was published in 1984. This was Martin’s most significant work on the Holocaust. In this volume he analyzed the story of the evolution of the legal and political concept known as the “Genocide Convention” and its relation to the career and inventor of the word, Raphael Lemkin.
Illustration 3: One of the eight wedge locks of a gas-tight steel door, type “air-raid shelter”, offered to the Auschwitz Camp, but never delivered. The wedging of these levers into the lock position could rightly be called “screwed shut”.
A fourth area of neglect is the use of relevant photographs. There is, sadly, not a single photograph in the entire book: no air photos, no ground photos, no corpse photos, no mass grave photos. The uninformed reader may not realize what he is missing, but knowledgeable ones will immediately suspect that important information is being overlooked, and perhaps even deliberately avoided. As we know, air photos of the death camps show neither mass burials nor any signs of mass murder. The many wartime ground photos of, for example, Auschwitz show nothing extraordinary—certainly nothing consistent with what is alleged to have happened there. Traditional historians seem to have figured out that photos cause nothing but trouble, and thus best to avoid them altogether, rather than trying to construct ad hoc explanations for their benign appearance. In this same category of neglect I would include charts, tables, diagrams, or other figures that could help clarify the situation. There is not one such item to be found in the book—just wall-to-wall text. To name one example, I myself have argued for a simple time-based charting technique, showing fatalities over time, that turns out to be very useful in depicting the flow of events.[5] It's a shame that Longerich didn't adopt something like this. But it's understandable, if clarity is not an objective.
Witness testimonies of the alleged Babi Yar massacre have been given full credence by historians even though these testimonies contradict each other and claim the most ridiculous impossibilities. Also, no one ever tried to secure any evidence in order to prove the murders. The Soviets after the end of the war turned the ravine of Babi Yar into a municipal garbage dump, and later into a garbage-incineration site. It is no less incomprehensible that the Soviets intended to build a sports facility over this site of the alleged mass murder of 33,771 Jews.[xxvi]
The camps system was imported by the Nazis from Russia.… Just as the Roehm atrocities goaded Stalin into imitation, so in turn the scale of his mass atrocities encouraged Hitler in his wartime schemes to change the entire demography of Eastern Europe … Hitler's "final solution" for the Jews had its origins not only in his own fevered mind but in the collectivization of the Soviet peasantry.10
Cox dismisses this Kraków Institute of Forensic Research report:
Since Sehn interpreted the words “special treatment” as a “code word” for the alleged mass extermination, the real reason for building Birkenau camp was thus assumed to be extermination. Piper, by contrast, states that the new crematorium (the future Crematorium II) “was designed for POWs”[11], which is beyond doubt. On 12 November 1941, after a telephone conversation with a representative of the Topf company, Bischoff, at that time Bauleiter (construction superintendent) of Auschwitz, sent the following letter to the Rüstungskommando (armaments command) of Weimar:
“Deniers [Holocaust revisionists] build their pseudo-arguments on traditional anti-Semitic stereotypes and imagery. They contend that Jews created the myth of the Holocaust in order to bilk the Germans out of billions of dollars and ensure the establishment of Israel. Once again the devious Jews have harmed innocent multitudes—Germans and Palestinians in particular—for the sake of their own financial and political ends. To someone nurtured by the soil of anti-Semitism, this makes perfect sense (p. xx).”
So Curilla’s sources were contemporary documents such as the "Ereignismeldungen" of the Einsatzgruppen, plus post-war trials against "National Socialist perpetrators". This is indeed the kind of evidence the Holocaust historians routinely adduce. Raul Hilberg does the same thing in his three-volume classic The Destruction of the European Jews. We will soon see what these sources are worth.
Parmi les convois traités de la sorte, les convois venus de Theresienstadt; les Allemands avaient ghettoïsé dans cette ville tchèque un grand nombre de Juifs âgés d'origines diverses (Allemagne, Autriche, etc.) ; puis, la politique juive provisoire des Allemands étant d'éloigner les Juifs « plus loin dans l'Est » en attendant de pouvoir les réimplanter définitivement hors d'Europe (par exemple à Madagascar), ils en avaient redéporté un grand nombre en Ukraine, en Biélorussie et dans les pays baltes via Auschwitz, Sobibor, Belzec et Treblinka. C'est ainsi qu'enfin 1942 10 convois sont partis de Theresienstadt pour Treblinka. Dans l'un d'eux, le Berlinois Siegmund Rothstein dont on retrouve le nom dans la banque du Yad Vashem.
The British are primarily responsible for the scene of, quote, “mass annihilation.” But images of Nordhausen recently bombed and strafed by British planes are still used today as proof of a deliberate German-planned Holocaust.
Shortly after our first exchanges on the Internet, I introduced Crowell to Bradley R. Smith and the small cadre of volunteers around CODOH. Crowell was immediately drawn to Smith’s style, charm, and cause – namely to argue for intellectual freedom with regard to the Holocaust story. It was not long after this that I had the opportunity to meet Crowell face-to-face. It was the first of many such occasions in which we would gather with other revisionists for food, drink, and discussion of the latest turns in Holocaust studies. During that first meeting, we visited the home of Friedrich Berg, who was well known for his studies surrounding the absurdity of the diesel-gas-chamber story.
Similarly, in 2000, Jean-Louis Berger, 53, a French literature instructor at Lemberg High school in eastern France, was sentenced to 10 months' imprisonment and a fine of $20,000 for merely telling his class of 15-year-olds “Concentration camps were in fact labor camps. Gas chambers were used only to kill lice. There were no six million dead in the camps but only one million.”
In the whole world, the Federal Republic of Germany enjoys the reputation of being a liberal, democratic country under the rule of law. This self-portrait will not be simply adopted here, however, but it will be critically reviewed. The litmus test for a country under the rule of law is when the state's interests collide with those of its citizens, that is to say, when the state finds it expedient to prosecute and punish its citizens. Then it will show whether the law can prevent the authorities  from misusing their omnipotence against defenseless citizens. Crucial in this regard is the Code of Criminal Procedure. It defines the rules according to which the judiciary may deal with those in the courtroom who got into the government's crosshairs for whatever reasons. Good laws prevent the state's misusing its power in the courtroom. In this regard, however, Germany performs abominably, because its Code of Criminal Procedure gives judges all the instruments needed to deal with defendants which ever way they (or their masters) please. They can gag the defense, deny all their motions for evidence, prevent any appeal, hide from the public what a case is all about, and they can claim anything they want in a verdict, because no protocol is made recording what is said in the courtroom by any party. Hence, if push comes to shove, the German judiciary can do arbitrarily whatever they (or their masters) want. And that is exactly what they do. But see for yourself.
The London Charter of the International Military Tribunal here alluded to (of 8th August 1945) simply laid down the procedures by which the Nuremberg trials were to be conducted. (NB: This was in-between the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki!) That Charter established three new categories of crime that were going to be applied retrospectively against the defeated Nazis: crimes against peace, war crimes, and crimes against humanity.[7] The judgement of Nuremberg was handed down in 1946, but this Gayssot Act relates solely to the category of crime to be used there – not to any later judgements, as is commonly supposed.
Today, "Holocaust denial" is a crime in 17 countries, including Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Switzerland and Romania. In October Italy's Parliament introduced an amendment to the country's criminal code that, if passed, would make Italy the 18th country to outlaw "Holocaust denial."[11] Italian Democratic Party Sen. Monica Cirinna called Holocaust denial, "a hateful attitude, which now becomes a prosecutable crime.'' At the instigation of self-appointed Thought Police, the remaining "democratic" nations seem sure to follow.
Frankl’s short time in Auschwitz is substantiated by the prisoner log from the sub-camp of Dachau, Kaufering III, which listed Frankl’s arrival on October 25, 1944, six days after his departure from Theresienstadt.[7] Thus, Frankl’s descriptions of his long stay at Auschwitz in Man’s Search for Meaning are false and misleading. Wayne Dyer was receiving inspiration from a man who by his own admission was lying about his experiences in Auschwitz.
Tales of heinous medical experiments conducted on the conscripts at Auschwitz by sadistic Nazi doctors are almost as numerous as are the multitudes still clamoring among us for the special considerations we reserve for the victims of Nazi cruelty. Dr. Mengele, it would seem, was everywhere any victim could be found, at countless places, and at the same times. Regardless of the liberties German researchers may have taken with people whose lives they considered at least as expendable as those of their sons then fighting on the fronts surrounding Germany, American doctors similarly took liberties with persons at Oak Ridge whose lives they (being white) might have deemed less valuable (their victims being black) than other choices they might have made. Or maybe they, like their German opposite numbers, merely chose people less able to draw attention to their objections, or even to object.
In the entire literature of German war crimes we find only three photographs which claim to show one of the alleged “gas vans”. None of them is serious evidence for this pretension; each one is - in one sense or the other – a fake.
Aber letztlich brauchen Sie sich, werter Zuschauer, wahrscheinlich keine Sorgen zu machen. Denn als die Justiz die Holocaust-Leugner holte, konnten Sie getrost schweigen; Sie waren ja kein Holocaust-Leugner. Als sie die Nazis einsperrten, haben Sie weiter geschwiegen; Sie waren ja kein Nazi. Als sie die Rechten holten, haben Sie immer noch geschwiegen, denn Sie waren ja kein Rechter. Wenn sie dann einst Sie abholen werden, wird keiner mehr da sein, der protestieren könnte.
Any serious scholar wishing to write history based only on verifiable data must conclude that, for the year 1942, there is not a shred of evidence for even one single deportee arriving at Auschwitz and being led straight to the gas chambers without prior registration and admission to the camp. This analysis confirms Mattogno’s conclusion that there never were any homicidal gassing “bunkers” at Auschwitz.9 There simply was no need for them, as there is no evidence for any such gassings.
“Nevertheless, it would, I suggest, prove counterproductive to engage in an open and public debate with David Irving et al. To do so would risk suggesting that established academic historians are recognising his work as the embodiment of genuine scholarship with which one is having merely an academic disagreement for purely scholarly reasons. This is already an excessive and unwarranted concession, which bears little relationship to reality. Attempts by genocide deniers to attract attention to their absurd and politically motivated claims by either involving or provoking public debates with established academics, thus need to be resisted. They must be rejected out of a concern that the very attempt at engagement contains an implicit endorsement that such claims somehow demand scholarly reactions, analysis. It presumes that they are at least potentially legitimate contributions to academic historical debate, which they are clearly not. The idea of my own work directing readers to take seriously Irving’s claims as a debating partner is repugnant at every imaginable level: cognitive, political and ethical.” (p. 28)
Yehuda Bauer, an Israeli Holocaust scholar […], said he warned his friend Wiesenthal […] about spreading the false notion that the Holocaust claimed 11 million victims – 6 million Jews and 5 million non-Jews.
The eyewitness testimony of Jewish veterans of the German concentration camps is often cited to establish the genocide of 6-million European Jews by Germany. However, the New York Jewish publication Aufbau documented in 1965 that 3,375,000 inmates, the vast majority of whom were Jewish, had survived the German camps and were receiving reparations from Germany.[22] How could there be 3,375,000 veterans of the German concentration camps receiving reparations from Germany 20 years after the war was over if Germany had murdered 6 million Jews? Norman Finkelstein, the author of The Holocaust Industry, quotes his mother as asking, “If everyone who claims to be a Holocaust survivor actually is one, who did Hitler kill?”[23]
Holocaust revisionists, by contrast, are few in number—not more than two or three dozen worldwide. They have tiny budgets and few sponsors, most of them undercover. They receive no compensation for their work. On the contrary—they are continually threatened, defamed, sued, and otherwise harassed. Their books are confiscated, and they are even occasionally thrown in jail. And yet, under the most difficult of circumstances, revisionists persevere in the task of exposing the shortcomings of the traditional view, and in turning a harsh light on some uncomfortable aspects of the Holocaust story. They do this not out of spite, nor meanness, and certainly not for financial gain—but simply in pursuit of the truth. They seek the truth of the greatest crime of the past century.
In an effort to galvanize popular legislative support for these proposals, Jones tendered his suggestions to the Australian Law Reform Commission in what was subsequently described as a “private submission.” Jones urged the Commission to prosecute “Holocaust deniers” to the fullest extent provided by law and recommended that “racist motivation” be taken into consideration at the time of sentencing, in order to tack additional time onto their sentence.
When it comes to the Shoah, we are transported outside the realm of normality into a virtual reality where the generally accepted rules of reasoning and research no longer apply. In response to two letters from Professor Faurisson published by the French daily Le Monde, 34 French historians published a declaration (“The Hitlerite Extermination Policy: a Declaration by Historians”) in the 21 February 1979 issue of this same newspaper. The concluding sentences of this declaration amount to a denunciation of scholarship and, like the Decalogue, deserve to be carved into stone:
At the present time, it is impossible for anyone to contest the traditional Holocaust extermination story within the German legal system. “Holocaust denial” is a criminal offense which is punishable with up to five years of imprisonment. In a German court, no exonerating evidence may be introduced in such trials, since the same evidence would amount to ‘denial’ as well and would merely lead to another criminal indictment of the defendant and his lawyer.[43]
Motions to introduce evidence with which the defense wishes to show per Section 244 Clause 4 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure that it possesses expert opinions which are superior to expert opinions previously submitted are likewise denied on grounds of common knowledge, although the probative value of new evidence unknown to the court cannot possibly be common knowledge. This violation of the law also receives the sanction of the Federal Supreme Court.[24]
And that’s our next point. Claiming something without proving it is profoundly unscientific. The way we prove things shows how our work lives up to scholarly standards. In essence, evidence we present must be verifiable by others. If others cannot locate, reproduce or recalculate the evidence we present, then we have failed. As mentioned before, there are certain methods and rules we have to comply with while collecting and interpreting our data.
In his work Belzec, Sobibor, Treblinka Yitzak Arad explains that the victims in these camps were killed in homicidal gas chambers using carbon monoxide gas from engine exhaust between fall 1942 and early 1943. Most were initially buried in mass graves. Due to the threat of ground water contamination but also concerns about a possible later discovery of this evidence of mass murder, these corpses are said to have been disinterred in the first half of 1943 and burned over a period of several months.
The most interesting part of the book consists of the subchapters concerning the deportation of Jews from various countries, the passages on the Soviet mass evacuation of Russian Jews at the time of Operation Barbarossa, and the concluding summary. Herein we find many instances where the description of the treatment of the Jews deviates considerably from the post-war Holocaust historiography. Below I will quote extensively these passages of interest, country by country, and comment briefly on them.
On 13 April 1943, in the Katyn forest, near Smolensk in the Soviet Union, the Germans, acting on information obtained from the local population, discovered seven mass graves containing a total of 4,143 bodies. The investigation (during which the bodies were examined by a commission consisting of forensic experts from 12 European countries, by a Commission of the Polish Red Cross and by American, British and Canadian officers selected from among POWs) showed that the crime had been committed by the Soviets. When the Soviets subsequently reoccupied the territory of Smolensk, the bodies at Katyn were once again exhumed and a commission was drawn up consisting solely of Soviet citizens (the Burdenko Commission), to shift responsibility for the massacre onto the Germans. On 15 January 1944, they also invited a group of Western journalists. This large-scale propaganda exercise in the falsification of history is still attested to in the 38 booklets relating to the Katyn case, which are still located in the State Archives of the Russian Federation. At Nuremberg, the Katyn massacre, shamelessly attributed to the Germans by the Soviets, was debated in several sessions of the Nuremberg Trial.[10]
In Denying the Holocaust, Lipstadt condemns the Holocaust-revisionist Institute for Historical Review (IHR) for bringing to light some of the damaging effects of the lies and exaggerations in the Holocaust story. In a tone of self-righteous hypocrisy, Lipstadt claims (p. 144):
“But the Vrba-Wetzler report left no room for doubt about the real purpose of Auschwitz. It accurately described the opening of the new crematoria/gas chamber complexes at Birkenau in 1943 and the way in which the murders were conducted. It wasn’t surprising that the report was so authentic, because one of the Sondercommandos working in the crematoria, Filip Muller, had told the two Slovaks exactly what went on there.” (p. 400)
This photo was taken one week after the end of the supposed mass cremations in the ravine. If 33,000 people were exhumed and burned evidence of vehicle and foot traffic to supply fuel should be evident in the area where the Jewish cemetery meets Babi Yar ravine, however there is no evidence of traffic either on the end of the narrow road that proceeds to the ravine from the end of Melnik Street, or on the grass and shrubbery or on the sides of the cemetery.[xiii]
In 2000, during the libel case that the semi-revisionist David Irving had brought in London against Deborah Lipstadt for her having called him a “Holocaust denier,” the Canadian expert Robert Jan van Pelt, of Jewish background, who had strived doggedly to find proof of the existence of real Nazi gas chambers at Auschwitz, was reduced to asserting his mere “moral certainty” of that existence. As for Judge Charles Gray, he was to state in his ruling that “the contemporaneous documents […] yield little clear evidence of the existence of gas chambers designed to kill humans.” He added: “I have to confess that, in common I suspect with most other people, I had supposed that the evidence of mass extermination of Jews in the gas chambers at Auschwitz was compelling. I have, however, set aside this preconception when assessing the evidence adduced by the parties in these proceedings.”
Still more incredibly, Venezia never mentions gas masks, without which the prisoners in the "Sonderkommando" would have been gassed in turn: certainly, in "Bunker 2", very probably in Crematorium III. F. Müller has written in this regard:
Dr. PANNENBECKER: As witness Number 4 I have named Dr. Diels, who is now in an internment camp in the Hanover district. The witness was chief of the Gestapo in Prussia in 1933-1934. He is acquainted with the measures which the Defendant Frick, as Reich Minister of the Interior, decreed for the supervision of the provinces by the Reich, as well as about the concentration camps, and also, in particular, about measures taken in individual cases and about conditions in the camps.
During the course of this public meeting, Leuchter expressed his professional opinion, based upon an on-site examination of the purported execution facilities at Auschwitz and Maidanek concentration camps, that the structures simply could not have been used for the purpose of mass murder, as had been alleged. Deckert translated the speech into German and publicly expressed his agreement with Leuchter’s conclusions. At no time during the course of the meeting did either man preach or advocate ‘hatemongering’, much less incite anyone to violence against minorities.
[8] Rudolf, Germar, Lectures on the Holocaust, 2nd edition, Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2011, p. 387.
Bernard Clarke was not the only Jew who tortured Germans to obtain confessions. Tuviah Friedman, for example, was a Polish Jew who was an inmate in German concentration camps. Friedman by his own admission beat up to 20 German prisoners a day to obtain confessions and uncover SS members. Friedman stated that “It gave me satisfaction. I wanted to see if they would cry or beg for mercy.”[18]
Once liberated, the prisoners' first thought is not of revenge, not even of their families, but to seize and consume Buchenwald’s remaining provisions. The following day, approximately 14 April, some of the younger men make their way to Weimar to acquire more food and sleep with women. This is not what you’d expect from starved and emaciated men ravaged by years of concentration camp life. The gratuitous photos we’ve seen of those who were liberated doesn’t make this seem possible. But now we learn just three days after liberation, Elie becomes ill with food poisoning. Very ill, and we wonder if it is the American food or the food they stole from the Germans? Either way, this is puzzling, just like the stories relating to the outbreak of typhus at Bergen-Belsen after its liberation by the British. Elie’s case is so serious he is transferred to a hospital where he spends the next two weeks on the brink of death. During this time he looks into a mirror, and what he sees is a corpse. Not simply a radically changed man like Yuri Zhivago after fifteen months as a doctor with the Red partisans, but “a corpse.” And it is just this liberty with modes of expression that defines how he has employed mystical rather than plain truth in describing his ordeal; how if he is pretending to be somebody else he has broken the rules regarding what Moshe the Beadle tried to say about entering the orchard. Yet even now, while viewing “the corpse,” never could he dream the fame and honors that awaited when telling his story, the Nobel Peace Prize and the United States Congressional Gold Medal, to name but a few. Proving life can be good if one isn’t a corpse, but lives to tell the tale.
In their book on the history of the region of Auschwitz, van Pelt and Dwork speak only of the two smaller crematoria (IV and V at Birkenau) as having been purpose-built as extermination sites, the other two (II and III) having only later been modified for the purpose. They spend quite some time on the subject of Crematorium II which had initially been designed for the main camp at Auschwitz but was eventually built at Birkenau.
DR. THOMA: But, Witness, please be quite brief. I am now putting this question to you: Did Himmler ever tell you that the final solution of the Jewish problem would take place through the extermination of the Jews?
Smith spoke on the subject of intellectual freedom with regard to the Holocaust on more than 400 radio talk shows and news broadcasts, as well as on nationwide television, including an appearance with Michael Shermer (Skeptic Magazine) and David Cole as a guest on the Phil Donahue Show.
Evidence has been found by allied investigators that fat from the corpses of dead Jews were indeed used to make soap in Stutthof, a concentration camp. The experiments to convert human fat into soap were conducted by a Nazi officer called Dr. Rudolf Spanner. The soap was often used to clean autopsy rooms of Nazi experimentation morgues.
In a book from 2005, Holocaust historian Wendy Lower mentions that Reichskommissar Erich Koch and the SS and Police leader Hans-Adolf Prützmann in early 1942 were involved in drawing up plans for the deportation of German Jews to the Ukraine:
“Under proper guidance, in the course of the final solution the Jews are to be allocated for appropriate labor in the East. Able-bodied Jews, separated according to sex, will be taken in large work columns to these areas for work on roads, in the course of which action doubtless a large portion will be eliminated by natural causes. The possible final remnant will, since it will undoubtedly consist of the most resistant portion, have to be treated accordingly, because it is the product of natural selection and would, upon release [bei Freilassung], act as the seed of a new Jewish revival.”
These ovens were probably retired after the new crematorium had been put into operation in May 1942 (illustration 3).
Holocaust Historian Gertrude Schneider asserts that, except for a first transport departing on 28 November 1941, all transports from Vienna to the General District of Weißruthenien (White Ruthenia) "ended up at the killing grounds of Maly Trostinec",[6] despite the fact that said transports are listed in documents as bound for nearby Minsk. On the other hand Schneider also states that the transport departing Vienna on 6 May 1942 "arrived May 11 at the Minsk railroad station", whereupon 81 Austrian Jewish deportees were "selected for work on the farm at Maly Trostinec".[7] Schneider also mentions a survivor from the transport departing Vienna on 27 May 1942 (Da-204), Marie Mack, who was later deported from the Minsk Ghetto to Lublin in September 1943;[8] as well as the arrival of the 7 October 1942 transport (Da-230) at the Minsk railway station.[9] Thus of the 25 transports departing Vienna for Minsk in 1942, only 22 or 23 could have been diverted to Maly Trostinec. If Lansky's statement about the number of transports from the west to Maly Trostinec is correct (or more or less correct as to order of magnitude), where did the other 71 or 72 transports come from? Did further, indirect transports reach Maly Trostinec via the "extermination camps"?
But the popularization, the discussion, the promotion (or whatever the opposite of censorship might be) of the tale underwent a succession of metamorphoses during the period 1945–1999 that Novick went to great lengths to chronicle and analyze. Anyone who was sapient in the 1950s, particularly if he lived among Jews or had Jewish friends (as I did) is well aware that the Holocaust had absolutely nothing of the prominence that it commands in today’s discourse. Why so? Our author devotes many pages and references to an explanation of that, and he identified the pivotal point, Israel’s 1967 attack on its Arab neighbors, that became the focal point of the subsequent analyses offered by Norman Finkelstein. Anyone who wonders just how this sea change came about will be well rewarded by Novick’s account. He was there, and unlike many of the rest of us, he was a historian, at least up to the point where he wrote this book.
Here we see an immediate contradiction with the first two reports: no gas from showerheads, no gassing through floor vents, but rather rows of overhead perforated pipes. Also, the alleged connection with the ductwork of the cremation chamber (room #8 in Photo 2) is absurd; there is no conceivable reason to run Zyklon gas, which is flammable, into a furnace room. And the reported floor area of roughly 600 square feet—versus today’s figure of 425—is a significant overestimate.
[14] Rudolf, Germar, The Rudolf Report: Expert Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz, Washington, D.C.: The Barnes Review, 2011, pp. 217-218. See also http://www.ihr.org/jhr/v13/v13n4p14_Faurisson.html.
In Germany, the wheels of repression continued to grind inexorably when Mannheim attorney Ludwig Block was arraigned before a court on charges of “denying the Holocaust” as a consequence of his too-vigorous defense of his former client, Günter Deckert. The hapless Block was cited for his use of fifty arguments presented for the consideration of the court during Deckert’s trial. Although many of Block’s arguments were tossed out of court by the presiding judge during the course of the trial, he was nevertheless charged with having had the temerity to present them in the first place!
1,800 Jews lived in Norway as of 1939.[62] 767 of them were deported starting on 19 November 1942. Of these deportees, 532 were sent to Auschwitz, were 346 were “gassed without registration”.
Mr. Amaudruz was placed on trial due to published comments he had authored in his monthly newsletter, Le Courrier du Continent, with a circulation of 400 subscribers. The offending passage read: “For my part, I maintain my position: I don’t believe in the gas chambers. Let the exterminationists provide the proof and I will believe it. But as I’ve been waiting for this proof for decades, I don’t believe I will see it soon.”[27]
This propaganda announced that 6,000,000 members of the Jewish Culture-Nation-State-People-Race had been killed in European camps, as well as an indeterminate number of other people. The propaganda was on a world-wide scale, and was of a mendacity that was perhaps adapted to a uniformized mass, but was simply disgusting to discriminating Europeans. The propaganda was technically quite complete. “Photographs” were supplied by the millions of copies. Thousands of the people who had been killed published accounts of their experiences in these camps. Hundreds of thousands more made fortunes in post-war black markets. “Gas-chambers” that did not exist were photographed, as a “gasmobile” was invented to titillate the mechanically-minded.”[28]
[xxii] Brandon, Ray (editor) and Lower, Wendy (editor), The Shoah in Ukraine: History, Testimony, Memorialization, Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press, 2008, pp. 294-295.
Strangely, though, the Krema cremation capacity was a huge mismatch with the gassing capacity. The five Kremas contained a total of 52 “muffles,” or body-insertion openings. Each muffle could burn, on average, one adult body per hour.[66] Allowing for 20% children, we may assume a practical average of 1.2 bodies per hour. The entire camp, therefore, could cremate about (52 x 1.2 x 20 =) 1,248 bodies per day.[67] Now, compare this with the gassing capacity of 65,000 per day. If the camp was truly designed as a high-volume death camp, surely the two figures would roughly match. Instead we find far too many ‘gas chambers’ and far too few crematoria muffles. Another strike against the conventional view.
Then, here comes Goldstone and his Commission, issuing their Report presenting tangible evidence that the IDF was at least to cull the herd of restive inmates in Gaza to manageable numbers, and what does the accused—but triumphant—Israel do in the face of such charges?
The evidence, however, is overwhelming that the Western Allies murdered many hundreds of thousands of Germans in their POW camps. American leaders were guilty of enormous crimes against the German people after World War II. The United States also did not fight a moral war against Germany. President Roosevelt misled the American public into supporting the war, and prolonged the war with his policy of unconditional surrender. Eisenhower and American military leaders also intentionally allowed the Soviet Union to take over Eastern Europe, thereby subjecting its people to the terrible tyranny of Soviet rule.
Even during the war, Dr. Austin J. App had begun writing on the folly and barbarity of Allied policies. He is reserved a special place by Lipstadt as seminal in the development of “Holocaust denial.” Lipstadt claims that because App was a lifelong figure in German-American societies he, unlike the eminent American academic revisionist Harry Elmer Barnes, “had no independent standing in the academic world.”[73] App served as president of the Federation of American Citizens of German Descent, founded in 1945. While he was a professor of English literature at Catholic universities, Lipstadt claims that his “far more dubious side” was unknown to his students. Were the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, American Jewish Congress, and American Jewish Committee really so neglectful in trying ruin the career of a well-placed and outspoken critic of Germanophobia and Talmudism, which Lipstadt calls “gutter-level antisemitism”? However, as we are again reminded, the Morgenthau Plan was not in effect anyway, and indeed the U.S. policy was humane.[74]
Neville Chamberlain originally explained in the House of Commons on March 15, 1939 that Germany had no obligation to consult Great Britain in dealing with the Czech-Slovak crisis. The British government had also never fulfilled its promise to guarantee the Czech state after the Munich Agreement. Chamberlain stated that the Slovak declaration of independence on March 14, 1939 put an end by internal disruption to the Czech state, and therefore the British guarantee to preserve the integrity of Czechoslovakia was no longer binding.[17] Chamberlain declared in the House of Commons: “With that [the breaking up of Czechoslovakia from the inside], a situation has ceased to exist which His Majesty’s government has always regarded as temporary.”[18] Chamberlain concluded, “Let us remember that the desire of all the peoples of the world still remains concentrated on the hopes of peace.”[19]
Against those whose opinions and evidence challenge the conclusions of mainstream historians, smear, electronic harassment, loss of employment, denunciations to employers, character assassination and poison pen letters are the usual methods employed by determined groups and individuals seeking to squelch free speech and open debate. In some rare cases, outright violence has been used in an attempt to put “deniers” out of business.
The Website of the association lists almost 400 twins from Auschwitz.[32] H. Kubica also presents a list of twins from Auschwitz, consisting of over 320 names.[33] The great majority of them were twins, but some were merely siblings, such as the sisters Tatiana Liliana and Alessandra Bucci. Both were deported to Auschwitz on 29 March 1943. The first, born on 19 September 1937, was registered under number 76484; the second, born 1 July 1939, was registered under number 6483.[34] Luigi Ferri, born on 9 September 1932, was deported in August 1944 and registered under number B-7525.[35] Sergio De Simone, born at Naples on 29 November 1937, was deported to Auschwitz on 29 March 1944, at the age of nearly 7 years, and registered under number 179614.[36]
"In the summer of 1942 Minsk and Maly Trostinec became the end station for deportation transports from Central Europe, mainly from Terezin and Vienna. […] The destination of five further deportation transports from Terezin in October 1942 has not yet been clarified. […] In the circulation plan for October the station of Izbica [in the General Government] was designated as destination for the transports from Terezin, which suggests that these people were murdered in one of the 'Aktion Reinhard' death camps. Nonetheless there is evidence indicating that in October 1942 five trains from Theresienstadt were conducted to Minsk / Maly Trostinec."[16]
When it comes to the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Dr. Lipstadt makes a number of claims, every single one of which is both unsubstantiated and untrue.
The torture to which both accuseds and those witnesses who were or might become accuseds were subjected, as it turns out, greatly transcended the bounds of the accuseds’ bodies and possessions. They extended in most cases also to the accuseds’ families. Accuseds knew full well that the Allies were in absolute control of everything in, on, and around Germany, and that no sort of law or protection stood between the Allied authorities and the children, spouses, and other family members, and their captors knew that they knew this. Interrogators did not refrain from occasionally reminding the subjects of their inquisitions that their victims’ families were well and thoroughly within their grasp, and the threat was credible in the extreme. How many tales were told, and what lies invented, to gain safety or sustenance for the victims’ families cannot be estimated, but those tales may, without a doubt, be read at interminable length in the sacred (and public) records of the International Military Tribunal.
“On 23 May 1945 at 18 o’clock, while fleeing, I was wounded by American soldiers near the lodge at Pyhrn near Spittal. My name is Franz Ziereis; I was born on 13 August 1905. I was the commandant of Mauthausen concentration camp and its satellite concentration camps. While trying to escape, I was wounded by gunshots in my left upper arm and in the back. A bullet pierced my belly and my abdominal wall. I was taken to the 131st evacuation hospital (US Army hospital) at Gusen and wish to make the following statement…”
That cancer is “free riders.” Free riders are the frauds and counterfeits—those basking in the sympathy and deference, not to mention in many cases the money, of the masses—who never sustained so much as a scratch or a bump from the Holocaust. These include not only those who falsely claim to have been its victims directly or in prospect by being subject to capture and deportation, but those who falsely claim to be the children of victims and those who falsely claim to have lost typically large numbers of family members to it.
Shn-3[17] is obviously a new finished copy of Shn-2. This third version appears under the headline “REPORT of the Special Commission for the investigation of the crimes of the German Fascist Occupiers in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp”. A subdivision into chapters is still lacking; the number of pages (eleven) remains unchanged. This time General Kudrjavzev is the only signer.
What is more, at the time, the ground-water table in the area of Birkenau was 1.2 meters below ground level[109], therefore the cremations would have taken place underwater!
Two crucially important pieces of “evidence” for the traditional view of the Holocaust are the testimonies of SS Lieut.-Colonel Adolf Eichmann (Head of the Jewish Office of the Gestapo, 1940-45) and former Auschwitz Commandant Rudolf Höss. Christopher Browning, widely considered to be one of the foremost academic experts on the National Socialist Final Solution, admitted that both Eichmann and Höss are unreliable witnesses. Hidden in a footnote of his magnum opus, we learn that “the testimonies of especially Höss and to some extent Eichmann are confused, contradictory, self-serving, and not credible.”[4] In a 2003 collection of essays, he pointed out Eichmann’s testimonials, traditionally considered to be a pillar of the Holocaust story, “contain calculated lies for legal defense.”[5]
In consequence, the essential eyewitness testimony of Dr. Mengele’s alleged crimes at Auschwitz crumbles inexorably, and the rest of the legend along with it.
At 645 pages, Holocaust is a substantial effort, but nothing like Hilberg's massive 1300-page, three-volume epic (cf. his 2003). Still, plenty of space to address all relevant and unsettled aspects of the topic, and (presumably) shed new light on them—or else, why even write such a book? Given that this decade alone has seen the publication of nearly 28,000 books on or about the Holocaust,[1] surely the historians of the world can be expected to publish only truly new material, addressing the many unanswered questions and troubling aspects of this dark era of our past. At least, this was my initial hope upon acquiring the book. Alas, I was disappointed.
“If you believe that somehow the Holocaust would not have occurred without IBM, you are more than wrong. The Holocaust would have proceeded—and often did proceed—with simple bullets, death marches, and massacres based on pen and paper persecution.”
“There is a feeling now prevalent in the United States marked by growing hatred of Fascism, and above all of Chancellor Hitler and everything connected with National Socialism. Propaganda is mostly in the hands of the Jews who control almost 100% [of the] radio, film, daily and periodical press. Although this propaganda is extremely coarse and presents Germany as black as possible—above all religious persecution and concentration camps are exploited—this propaganda is nevertheless extremely effective since the public here is completely ignorant and knows nothing of the situation in Europe.
Probably in 1947 a brochure was produced entitled “Bericht über das Konzentrationslager Sachsenhausen durch den ehemaligen Häftling Theodor Feuerlein“ [Report on the Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen by the former prisoner Theodor Feuerlein].[25] Feuerlein, together with Bock, Engemann, Schöning and other Communists, figures on a list of Communist inmates who had stayed behind in the camp, and the title says clearly that he was the author of the report. The information Feuerlein provides about himself is extremely sparse: We only learn that he had been attached to the work commando Falkensee and remained in the camp until 3 May. But as the first draft of the report was only ready around 7 May and Feuerlein did not sign any of the different versions, he cannot possibly have been the author.
“1941-1945. Remember every single one of the thousands of sons and daughters of the fatherland who were tortured to death at Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp. The Government of Russia.”
In August 1933 Göring had curtailed the SA and disbanded the “auxiliary police,” strict regulations were enforced, and the Gestapo, supported by the police, were the only agencies empowered with “protective custody.” Hans Frank, the Minister of Justice at Munich, was among the most vocal against SA maltreatment of opponents. The SS took control of the concentration camps. There was a strict code for the treatment of internees. A case of two opponents being maltreated and sent to the Oranienburg concentration camp by the Gestapo in Berlin resulted in an investigation that found against the Gestapo.24 One might wonder what this epitome of the terror state was doing investigating maltreatment of two opponents by the state political police? Such a procedure must have been unusual for any state in 1933, or today for that matter.
Ironically, Dennis Reinhartz, a University of Texas at Arlington historian, was one of the OSI’s consultants on the Artukovic case. He recently told the Washington Times that while Artukovic was an important member of a Nazi puppet government, he does not believe the evidence of Avdic. “He was quite clearly cutting himself a deal with the government that had him imprisoned. On those events there is no corroboration,” Reinhartz said.
Yet, if Holocaust denial laws do not “depend on imprisoning deniers,” Kahn must explain why so many individuals are languishing behind bars throughout Europe for precisely that reason. Even granting the possibility that Kahn is correct, what practical difference does it make whether the accused are imprisoned, calumniated, slandered, libeled, mischaracterized and dehumanized? All characterizations inevitably lead to the same inevitable denouement: contempt for the offender and ostracism from mainstream society.
Revisionists have also been persecuted in countries where questioning the Holocaust story is still legal. Canadian revisionist Ernst Zündel was tried in 1985 and 1988 in Toronto, Canada for the alleged crime of knowingly publishing false news. All Zündel had ever done was publicly dispute the Holocaust story. Zündel was prosecuted based on information from the Canadian Holocaust Remembrance Association, a Jewish group that claimed Zündel was spreading false information. This Jewish group used Canadian taxpayer money to prosecute Zündel. Even though Zündel won both cases on appeal, he continued to be attacked and persecuted in Canada. In 1995 his Toronto residence was the subject of an arson attack resulting in over $400,000 of damages. Zündel was also the recipient of a parcel bomb that was defused by the Toronto Police bomb squad.
Wie wir sehen können, sind beide Türen 90 cm breit und bestehen entweder aus zwei Türen, von der eine nach innen, die andere nach außen aufgeht, oder einer Schwingtür. In jedem Fall wäre eine solche Anordnung für eine Gaskammer ungeeignet gewesen, da Schwingtüren weder gasdicht noch paniksicher gemacht werden können, und falls diese Anordnung aus zwei Türen bestand, so hätte die innere, nach innen aufgehende nicht geöffnet werden können, wenn sich in der Kammer Leichen davor häuften. Eine solche Anordnung ist tatsächlich für Leichenhallen üblich. Zum Beispiel zeigen die Pläne der Leichenhalle des alten Krematoriums von Auschwitz die gleiche Türbauweise.
While interrogated in preparation of the first Frankfurt Auschwitz Trial, defendant Hans Stark made the following statements in his deposition about the doors of that room:[11]
"Finally, it should be noted that a British researcher, Gerald Reitlinger, in his work The Final Solution (London, 1953), questions the total of 6 million. He asserts that many of the figures were deliberately inflated for psychological reasons—both by the Nazis, who were motivated by an urge to boast of their crimes, and by the Jews, who were influenced by the pessimism typical of victims. He therefore strongly questions some of the figures given by the Nazis. By systematically re-examining the figures given for each country, adopting the lowest figure in each case by way of hypothesis, he arrives at a total between a minimum of 4,200,000 and a maximum of 4,600,000. His heaviest corrections are in the figures for Eastern Poland and the Soviet Union proper. In the case of these two regions, estimates are complicated by population movements during and after the war, and by the total absence of reliable statistical data on the present Jewish population there.
A convincing example of tall-tale bearing was recounted by Rabbi Leslie H. Hardman, who was among the first to enter the Belsen Camp as a liberator. Hardman had been told by, and apparently believed, one of the inmates that a gas chamber had been under construction in the Belsen camp just prior to the arrival of the British.[65] After hearing this Hardman wrote:
“For the purchase and delivery of Zyklon the firm [Testa] depended directly on the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Schädlingsbekämpfung Frankfurt upon Main (DEGESCH), which, as the sole proprietor of the patent and the production license, had Zyklon produced by the Dessauer Werke für Zucker und Chemische Industrie A.G. and the Kaliwerke Kolin A.G. All orders that the firm Tesch & Stabenow (Testa) received from the concentration camps and the SS organizations had to pass to DEGESCH; from time to time, Testa submitted the orders for the quantities of Zyklon ordered, informing DEGESCH about the can sizes requested and the delivery details. DEGESCH in turn took the merchandise from the factory in Dessau or Kolin. The merchandise was then shipped directly from factories in Dessau or Kolin to the end customer, and DEGESCH was sent a shipping advice with a copy to Testa.”
The 2,579 Catholic clergymen imprisoned in the Dachau concentration camp had been a special group among the camp inmates. We recall that in 1940 all of the Christian clergymen being held in “protective custody” in the Reich—about 1,000 at that time—were consolidated in Dachau…About 450 of the final number were German or Austrian (the Poles with 1,780 were the largest national group), and they had a relatively high survival rate.[20]
“The laws of nature apply both to Nazis and anti-fascists. Nobody can be killed with diesel exhaust gas in the manner described [in the Holocaust literature].”
Perhaps we should consider the never-spoken words that may come after the familiar incantation, "never again" as we hear it from the many Jewish organizations that mouth it while seeking donations. Never again, what? Never again a genocide directed against Jews? Never again a law disadvantaging Jews? Never again a private act unfavorable to any Jew, anywhere? Never again a public word, by anyone, anywhere, that might in some way be interpreted unflatteringly as to anyone who might be or have been a Jew?
Remark: If there are neither any murder weapons nor testimonies, then what is left? What is one to think of the places presented to millions of deceived visitors as gas chambers? What must be thought of the individuals who introduce themselves as witnesses or miraculous survivors of the gas chambers? For her part, S. Veil is the first holocaustic authority to have thus given to understand that any alleged witness to gassings can only be a false witness. Already on March 6, 1979, in the course of a televised discussion presented by the French programme “Dossiers de l’écran” (Screen Files) about the airing of the American series “Holocaust”, she had displayed her contempt for one Maurice Benroubi, introduced as a “witness of the gas chambers”. The latter, as a result, adopted an attitude of extreme discretion compared with that shown in his “testimony”, which had appeared shortly before in the weekly L’Express (March 3-9, 1979, p. 107-110).
Presented with a possibility to save the peace in Europe, President Roosevelt rejected Chamberlain’s desperate plea out of hand. With Roosevelt’s rejection, Kennedy reported, British Prime Minister Chamberlain lost all hope. Chamberlain stated: “The futility of it all is the thing that is frightful. After all, we cannot save the Poles. We can merely carry on a war of revenge that will mean the destruction of all Europe.”[31]
“As it turned out, women and children arriving in Auschwitz were gassed. But we were not. We were taken into Auschwitz and the other prisoners that had been there already knew their way around and said to us that the reason we weren’t gassed was that they thought, ’Well they’ll die soon anyway, so it doesn’t pay to run gas into the trains for just a few people.’ When we arrived, the SS was there with the dogs and the white gloves and the whips in their hands and beautifully pressed uniforms. At the time there were no selections. We were taken to the women’s camps.” (p. 87)
Some Jewish historians dismiss these and other statements by Himmler by saying that the Nazis used code words to hide their genocide of European Jewry. This theory does not explain why Himmler used explicit written orders for his other crimes. For example, Heinrich Himmler authorized in writing many illegal human medical experiments and executions in the German concentration camps. It is absurd to think that Himmler hid the genocide of European Jewry behind code words, while his other crimes were clearly stated in writing.
The Daugavpils demographics incongruities get even worse in the light of the fact in early October 1941, i.e. after the reported period of activity of Einsatzkommando 3 but before the alleged mass shooting on 9 November, the General Commissar of Latvia, Otto-Heinrich Drechsler, wrote a letter to the Reich Commissar of Ostland, Hinrich Lohse, in which the number of Jews in the Daugavpils ghetto is given as merely 2,185.[78] This figure is echoed by an article published in the 12 October 1941 issue of the local newspaper Daugavas Vēstnesis, according to which the ghetto population numbered 2,175.[79] But if only some 2,000 Jews lived in the Daugavpils ghetto in October 1941, how then could some 11,000 Jews from the same ghetto have been murdered in November 1941? It must be stressed here that Holocaust historiography knows of no transports of Jews to Daugavpils between October and November 1941.
The figure of 6-million Jewish deaths was also used by Martin H. Glynn, the governor of New York, in an article entitled “The Crucifixion of Jews Must Stop!” printed in The American Hebrew magazine published by the American Jewish Committee. Glynn stated in this article: “Six million men and women are dying from lack of the necessaries of life; eight hundred thousand children cry for bread. And this fate is upon them through no fault of their own, through no transgression of the laws of God or man; but through the awful tyranny of war and a bigoted lust for Jewish blood.” Glynn’s article was printed on October 31, 1919. The allegation was that “this threatened holocaust of human life” was occurring in the wake of the Great War.[6]
Shockingly, in the 1990s, some mainline Jewish organizations have reversed direction and committed themselves to undermining intellectual freedom with respect to a single historical controversy—whether the Germans did or did not employ homicidal gassing chambers to kill millions of European Jews in a state-sponsored program of genocide. In practice, what this often adds up to, particularly on college campuses, is the perception of an organized Jewish onslaught against intellectual freedom.
Pope John Paul II never publicly apologized for helping these political elites to "bear false witness against their neighbor." This shows that even the so-called "moral conscience" of the West had questionable moral integrity on this Holocaust issue.
First, he speaks of one large building with 15 furnaces where there were two. Second, the chambers were not underneath a garden as there was no garden and the chambers were not completely underground, as their roof was one meter above ground. Third, they were large but certainly not “vast”. The room that served as the gas chamber was 30 meters long, a little more than a basketball field (28 meters). It had a surface area of some 210 m². If we assume a maximum possible packing density of some 10 persons per square meter, that would amount to 2,100 people. But that would require military-style discipline to achieve!
Dr. Viola’s iconoclastic act triggered a series of blog posts on olodogma documenting how easy it is indeed to submit invented information to Yad Vashem and have it included in their database of Shoah victims.
Mauthausen is situated on northern side of the Danube River some kilometres downstream of Linz, at a straight-line distance of only 120 km from Salzburg. But since the Americans had pulled back, the camp lay in the Soviet Zone of Austria. It emerges from the so-called Lachout document, which surfaced 1987 under mysterious circumstances in Vienna, that in 1948 there was an Allied Investigation Commission consisting of representatives of the four Allied powers which investigated the camp in order to ascertain whether there had been a gas chamber or not. Robert Faurisson, who had flown to Vienna to inform himself about this document, remained skeptical. Apparently he was the first who recognized that, "if this document is genuine and if Emil Lachout is telling the truth", it would constitute a verification of Pinter´s letter (Text E), but he he had formulated this as a mere possibility and as a question yet to clarify.[32] It was not long thereafter that Emil Lachout stated that "U.S. Colonel Dr. Stephen Pinter" had been head of the Allied Commission in Mauthausen and author of a (second) Mauthausen report.[33]
July 16. Austin J App, at the time doing research in Europe, once again writes to Time magazine, which had offered to him as proof for the alleged extermination of 6 million Jews the November 26, 1945 testimony of Wilhelm Hoettl, pointing out the absurdity in offering witness statements as proof of genocide: “Surely the fact that even you could quote no better authority than that of a frightened, hysterical Obersturmbannfuehrer, testifying four years ago, must make you suspect that if his figures could have been substantiated those who repeat the charge in order to persecute Germans would have long ago have done so.” App further notes the role the extermination allegation played in the creation of the Israeli state the previous year. According to App’s own estimate, less than 1.5 million European Jews had lost their lives due to Nazi persecution.[19]
The presumed transfer of approximately 1,500 Gypsies to Auschwitz on 23 May 1944 is not mentioned in the Hauptbuch des Zigeunerlagers. As for the presumed gassing on 2 August 1944, this register contains no indication of it, since the notations contained in it cease, strangely, with the month of July.
As early as 1942 the Soviet authorities had founded an ”Extraordinary State Commission“ (ESC) aiming at ascertaining “crimes” committed by the ”German fascist occupiers” and the damage caused by them. The activities of the ESC naturally extended to the German concentration camps that had been liberated by the Red Army. Thus a Soviet commission carried out an investigation at Sachsenhausen in May/June 1945, one of its tasks being the ascertainment of the number of victims of the camp.
However, in his impressive 2005 work on open-air incinerations at Auschwitz, Carlo Mattogno hypothesized that one air photo taken by a Canadian reconnaissance airplane on August 20, 1944, over the Birkenau camp “shows a dense column of smoke rising in a spiral from the chimney of crematorium III.” See Illustration 2.[4]
Lüftl had elicited the attention of the Austrian authorities as well as the national press because he had arrived at the conclusion that the homicidal gas chambers of Auschwitz and Mauthausen, as described, were technically impossible. Based upon his own extensive research, Lüftl pronounced the described operations of the gas chambers to be incompatible with the laws of nature and scientifically refuted survivor accounts describing flames shooting directly from crematoria chimneys. Lüftl’s essay also drew into question key elements of the “Holocaust story” such as the widely referenced Kurt Gerstein Report, mass murder by diesel engine exhaust, as well as published statistics in respect to cremation.
Thompson and Yockey referred to the Congressional investigation of the trial methodology undertaken by Texas Supreme Court Judge Gordon Simpson, after the defendants’ lawyer, Lt. Col. William M. Everett, Jr., who had conducted a vigorous defence, filed a petition with the U.S. Supreme Court claiming the defendants had been subjected to torture to extract confessions. A member of the tribunal investigating in 1948 the methods of the prosecution, Judge Edward LeRoy Van Roden, examined the records of one thousand “war crimes” cases and concluded that the entire process was wrong. In 1952, a small book was published in Germany on the trial in which it is stated that the prisoners were confined in dark cells in solitary confinement, deprived of daily exercise, spat at, prevented from sleeping, hit with fists and metal bars, kicked in the testicles and shins, forced to stand with hands raised for hours, subjected to mock trials and death sentences, subjected to fake hangings until strangled to unconsciousness. They were given promises of lenient treatment should they confess, and  threatened with reprisals against family.[84]
Objectively, it follows that with this simple method one can levitate the numbers of Holocaust victims to infinity! In practice, for the purposes of Hoaxoco$t propaganda, they've added 1,000,000 "victims' names" in 6 years (2004→2010)! Easy-peasy… why not Six Million? History, real history, has no need of "fakes" and "forgeries", whether improvised or professional!
He was disguised as a local countryman, with big moustache disguise. The interrogation started as: ‘So you are Blinky Blonk – the assumed name’, and he said ‘Yes!’ ‘and you’ve been on the farm, working on the farm?’ ‘Yes’ ‘and you had the lack of feeling to steal a bike from one of the farmers’. That was what we pretended to accuse him of, and he claimed that that was absolutely wrong. ‘Well possibly, possibly, possibly that’s true. But we know that you are not XX, because we know that you are Rudolph [sic] Höss, former commandant of Auschwitz’. Höss was taken outside to the courtyard, and the sergeant removed his moustache. He no longer denied who he was. 1 million 500 thousand people killed under his surveillance was the accusation, but he claimed that that was their own figure, but the correct one was over 2 million, about 2 million 300 thousand. We were all struck silent for a moment.”
Now, if that gas chamber was meant to be operated with Zyklon B, it would have been smart, as architect Will correctly suggested, to equip the sheet-metal shaft running down the wall of the adjacent room with some trap door – hinted at here with blue lines – allowing for Zyklon B to be inserted into some kind of basket inside the shaft, hinted at here with the red meshwork. That way, the constant stream of warm air would have evaporated the poison gas quickly and would have spread it out inside the room rapidly. But, as architect Will correctly observed in his report, there is no trace of any provision to that effect.
Browning is mistaken. His claim that—without exception all witnesses concur on the vital issue that Jews were murdered in gas chambers using carbon monoxide from engine exhaust—is demonstrably false. There are Sobibor survivors who claimed that Jews were murdered en masse with chlorine gas, Zyklon B gas, “unnamed gases” and electricity at Sobibor, and not with the use of “carbon monoxide/engine exhaust chambers.” Browning failed to inform his readers of the serious problems such false eyewitness testimony raises.
Buchenwald
Professor Deborah Lipstadt, the leading voice representing the Holocaust industry in academia, has chosen to single out the work I do on college campuses for special attention in her much-praised book, Denying the Holocaust, The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory. There she devotes a 26-page chapter to what she sees as "The Battle for the Campus," writing plaintively that: "Colleagues have related that their students' questions are increasingly informed by Holocaust denial:"
Heisenberg wrote a point-by-point rebuttal of Stark’s charges in response to a letter from Himmler. Himmler then set in motion an intensive SS investigation that lasted more than eight months. Heisenberg made several trips to Berlin to defend his case, and on at least one trip he was interrogated in the basement chambers of the SS headquarters. Fortunately, the SS investigators assigned to Heisenberg’s investigation had some training in physics, and they correctly described Heisenberg as an apolitical academic who was of great value to German physics. Himmler on July 21, 1938 sent an official letter to Heisenberg stating: “I do not approve of the attack of Das Schwarze Korps in its article, and I have proscribed any further attack against you.” Heisenberg was exonerated and free to work in Germany.[12]
There would not be such a discrepancy in the construction material if the gas chamber and chutes were installed at the time of construction, as the experts insist to this day. Evidently someone broke into the completed brick wall at a later date to install the chutes—perhaps at the direction of the occupying Americans.
Therefore, the maximum crematory capacity of the ovens of Crematorium III was 600 bodies per 24 hours; the difference between 600 and 3,240 is not trivial. Venezia also claims that
An ADL survey of 2014 to justify its existence and bolster the need for more Holocaust propaganda…
Revisionists in the United States and Canada have in fact been subjected to a multiplicity of various underhanded stratagems designed to discourage them from publicizing or otherwise disseminating their beliefs and bring them into public contempt. Although to date no Senate or House Committee has been formed to address the issue of “Holocaust denial,” the harassment of revisionists recalls to mind an unpleasant form of intolerance usually associated with the McCarthy Era, when blacklisted communists and communist sympathizers were the subject of publicly aired House and Senate investigations.
4) The transports from Thrace went via Salonika, Bulgaria, Vienna and Krakow/Katowice to Treblinka, while transports from Salonika (Thessaloniki) to Auschwitz appear to usually have followed the route Salonika–Belgrade–Zagreb–Vienna–Auschwitz.[92] It is remarkable that those transports first made a considerable detour to the west before turning east and reaching Auschwitz and Treblinka. A quick glance at a map of Europe during World War Two provides the most likely explanation for this: if the convoys from eastern Greece had taken the shortest route to the two “death camps,” they would inevitably have passed through Romanian and Hungarian territory. While both Hungary and Romania were allies of Germany, they were not satellite states but arguably the most sovereign of the “minor Axis nations” with Jewish policies of their own, as shown by the fact that Jews from Hungary were not deported until spring 1944, after German troops had occupied the country.
While the trial of Demjanjuk in Germany indicated to some, including Efraim Zuroff, chief “Nazi hunter” of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, that there is hope “that this verdict will pave the way for additional prosecutions in Germany,” it should indicate to objective observers that the time for such prosecutions is over. Alleged perpetrators are in their 90s and in expectedly poor health. Eyewitnesses have faulty memories of all such events, even when they occurred less than the 65-plus years that have elapsed. Evidence is lacking. In fact the alleged crimes themselves have to generally be taken as a matter of faith by all sides. Attorneys and judges who refuse to do this face the threat of being tried and imprisoned for the crime of ‘Holocaust denial.’
[36] Turley, Mark, “Genocide at Nuremberg,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 1, No. 3, Winter 2009.
Just about every claim in this miscaptioned photo is false. This example illuminates the typical hysterical propaganda common at the time and still repeated today by a government-funded institution. In reality, these alleged “meat hooks” are just hangers for clothes to air out after passing through the fumigation chambers.
In prosecuting cases of Holocaust denial, German judges are bound to uphold the strict letter of the law, which often becomes problematical. According to Article 130, an individual may become liable if prosecutors determine that their statements constitute “agitation of the people” which German legislation defines as follows-
As will presently be seen, individuals and special interest groups concerned with stifling freedom of expression constantly test, suggest, update and introduce novel and legally questionable methods designed to curtail free speech and inquiry. Additionally, a number of libraries and organizations such as Steven Spielberg’s Survivors of the Holocaust Visual History Foundation and the Wiener Institute of Contemporary History in London openly restrict access to their materials in respect to independent researchers unable to provide acceptable ‘credentials’ or referrals.
Hitler’s statements in Mein Kampf were prophetic. Through constant repetition in the Jewish-controlled media, the majority of people believe the big lie that Germany built homicidal gas chambers that were used in a genocidal program of mass extermination of the Jews. The truth, however, is that Germany did not have any homicidal gas chambers in its camps during World War II, and did not conduct a program of genocide against Jews. Thus, in my opinion, Jews have repeated the big lie of “the Holocaust” to promote their own sectarian interests.[6]
Irving’s hope that the Leuchter report would lead to the immediate collapse of the Auschwitz gas chamber story did not materialize. Irving was viciously smeared by the media; his books disappeared from the bookshops; he sustained huge financial losses and ultimately was branded a “Holocaust denier.”
“Statement made voluntarily at [Minden] Gaol by Rudolf Hoess former commandant of Auschwitz concentration camp on 16th day of March 1946.
Much like the discoverers/inventors of “the Holocaust,” Lowe has revealed a war, or wars, without a name—a set of conflicts that, even if they did not entail declarations of war against one government by another government, nonetheless exerted a profound impact upon the constitution of Europe’s states over the decade following the surrender of the German government to the governments whose armies had conquered its territory. And Lowe’s account encompasses mass slaughters that exhibited all the cruelty and injustice that is to be found in the various carnages constituting World War II itself. Perhaps to his credit, Lowe has eschewed the opportunity to “brand” his subject with a label. He might have reprised the ingenious creators of “the Holocaust” and labelled it “the Conflagration.” Or he might have struck out on his own and called it “the Afterwar,” or even “the Aftershock,” hardly more metaphoric than the term that is forever branded on our consciences by countless movies, books, and television specials.
April-May. Former commandant of the Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen concentration camps, Josef Kramer, is captured by British forces on April 17 and interned on the following day. Sometime between April 18 and May 21 Kramer made a first statement on his role as camp commandant. In it, we read:
In Germany they are never allowed to testify, when it comes to revisionists on trial. And worse still: not only witnesses supporting the views of a revisionist defendant are rejected, but all kinds of evidence: witnesses, documents, experts. Germany’s judiciary claims that everything about the Holocaust is “self-evident,” thus requiring no proof at all. In fact, they go so far as to indict anyone who merely dares to file a motion to introduce such evidence, be he a defendant or a defense lawyer. Yes, Germany has made it illegal to move for the introduction of exonerating evidence! Not even Stalin had such an ingenious tool in his repertoire of repression! This way the German judiciary manages to eliminate all unwanted data from the record – not that there is much of a record to begin with…
Dissecting is 612 pages long, and any of its chapters contains more factual information than many an entire book offered by the “other side.” It is set in what looks like about ten-point type, with its numerous footnotes (does one read footnotes?) in about eight-point, yielding a work of about 300,000 words (yes, I counted them), not counting the numerous photographs and their captions. It is nearly one and half times the length of Arthur Butz’s imposing opus. For the reader with large, but not stupendous, endurance, I would strongly recommend a “chapter-by-chapter” approach—perhaps a chapter a month, suitable for pensioners such as myself, or those with “day jobs.” The chapters are, unlike Butz’s, altogether independent of each other. Each drives a stake into the Holocaust monster from an entirely different direction, and none fails to penetrate its heart squarely. And it won’t ever really matter if you happen never to digest the entirety of every chapter.
Even our traditional scholars agree—there was no mass murder prior to the war, which commenced in September 1939. Back in the 1970s, Erich Fromm wrote that “[the] systematic slaughter began only with the outbreak of the second World War. There is no convincing evidence that Hitler contemplated the annihilation of Jewry until shortly before then” (1973: 398). More recently, Peter Longerich (2010: 132) confirms this view: “The beginning of the Second World War saw the inauguration of the National Socialist regime’s systematic politics of racial annihilation.” Whether in fact there was any “systematic annihilation” or “slaughter” at all remains to be seen, however.
When it comes to revisionist historian Mark Weber, Lipstadt mentions only one of his many papers on the Holocaust, of which we list here only the major ones:
As already noted by Gerald Reitlinger, the Gypsy women from the women’s sector of Camp BIIe were transported to Ravensbrück on 1 August 1944.[56] The source cited by him in fact confirms that the transport in question left Auschwitz on 1 August and reached Ravensbrück on 3 August. Reitlinger explains:
Upon entering the building, we were treated to what must have been the world’s shortest tour of a gas chamber. We walked in, took a hard right turn into a small room, then a hard left into the gas chamber itself. It was a windowless, rectangular room, about 25 x 5 meters. The guide said little more than “this is the gas chamber, no photos please,” and then she was off into the adjoining room with the cremation ovens. Rebel that I am, and not wanting to miss an opportunity, I lagged behind the group and then snapped a quick photo (#10). But the guide was gone—no chance to ask about the many post-war modifications to the room (chamber size, door location, chimney), nor about its history as a morgue and an air raid shelter. No chance to ask how 800 to 1000 people were jammed into that room, nor how the deadly Zyklon pellets were collected up without killing the guards handling the dead bodies. No chance to ask why the four Zyklon vents appeared to be added later than the original construction. No chance to ask about French traditionalist Eric Conan’s claim that “everything there is false.”
This 1919 article by Martin Glynn refers to a catastrophe in which "six million human beings are being whirled toward the grave." It also refers to a "threatened holocaust of human life." For full text see: http://codoh.com/library/document/871/
There is even evidence within History on Trial itself that suggests Lipstadt may be engaging in deceit when she claims that “ethnicity is entirely irrelevant to her.” On pp. 12f., she implicitly condemns the policy of the former Soviet Union on the issue of the Holocaust, because of the USSR’s refusal to validate the concept of a “Jewish ethnicity” by identifying the victims of the Holocaust as Jews. In her own words:
Finally we arrived at “the” gas chamber in the main camp, also called Krematorium #1 (or Krema 1, for short). It was a partially underground structure with a flat roof and sloping, grassy side walls with large trees—see Photo 7. Few statistics were given on the details of the gassings: no start or finish date (in fact, February to November 1942), no details on the gassing procedure (Zyklon pellets thrown in through roof vents), and only rough numbers of Jews allegedly gassed there (about 20,000—a mere two percent of the claimed Auschwitz toll). We could not enter via the “inmate entrance,” as this was blocked off (Photo 8), so we went around to the other side (Photo 9).
There is yet another hanging into which Elie delves at length concerning a boy who was an assistant to a Dutch Oberkapo of the fifty-second cable unit. The boy was known as a pipel, a child with a refined and beautiful face, and anyone who has read Oscar Wilde’s “Portrait of Mr. W.H.,” is struck by certain similarities. After the sabotage of the electric power station at Buna, the Gestapo accuse a certain Dutchman, whereupon they torture and send him to Auschwitz. The pipel, however, also tortured, is instead sentenced to death at Buna, along with two others. Consequently, three gallows are erected and it is the same cumbersome process once again: the SS en masse, machine guns at the ready, surrounding ten thousand prisoners at a mandatory assembly. But what’s this? Elie tells us the SS seem more disturbed than usual. Why? Because it is no light matter to hang a young boy in front of thousands of spectators! The three are hanged at the same time and in the same primitive manner the Italians used for the Libyans in 1931: by forcing them to mount chairs placing a noose around their necks, then tipping the chairs over. Again the token of respect, again the forced march past the victims. But during this pass and review the prisoners see the two adults have perished but the pipel, “being so light,” is still alive, struggling in his noose and experiencing a slow agony on the brink of death. If the SS were reluctant to begin with, what are they feeling now? But Elie doesn’t tell us. What he does say is that night the soup tasted of corpses. Corpses? It is a poor analogy. It also poses a strange contrast to the aftermath of the death of the youth from Warsaw where Elie said the soup tasted “excellent.” Which is less an artistic twist than a psychological exposé.
The Theresienstadt concentration camp in Czechoslovakia was used by Germany during the war to intern many of Germany’s, Austria’s and Czechoslovakia’s most-famous or -talented Jews. On May 24, 1945, the Czech government decided to use the Theresienstadt Camp to imprison 600 Germans from Prague. Within the first few hours of their arrival, between 59 and 70 of these Germans were brutally beaten to death. Two hundred more Germans were reported to have died from torture and beatings within the next few days. The camp commandant, Alois Pruša, took great pleasure in the beatings, and reportedly used at least one of his daughters to assist him in killing the German inmates. Pruša and his assistant told the remaining surviving Germans that they would never leave the camp.[20]
THE WITNESS: All that I have heard beyond that I considered as hearsay, and I cannot give evidence of these before this Tribunal.
Andrew Dismore, the Labor MP for Hendon and a member of the Council against Anti-Semitism, said: “I think a case like this can only strengthen the case for Holocaust-denial legislation to be introduced in Britain. I hope the German authorities will take immediate action to deal with this man. I intend to refer the case to the Director of Public Prosecutions.”
“In detailing the supposed resettlement program, MGK intentionally leave a gaping hole in their argument by refusing to discuss the fate of Jews deported to the death camps in 1944 (when Nazi territories were swiftly shrinking due to the advancing Soviet armies), most specifically the 320,000 Hungarian Jews who were deported to Auschwitz-Birkenau but never registered and never classified as ‘transit Jews’. […] In addition to the Hungarian Jews must be added tens of thousands of Polish Jews deported both to Chelmno and Auschwitz throughout 1944. With regard to Chelmno, MGK totally ignore a crucial document from Greiser to Pohl in February 1944 which stated that ‘The reduction of the [Lodz ghetto] population will be carried out by the Sonderkommando of SS Hauptsturmfuehrer Bothmann, which operated in the area previously.’ Two earlier studies by Graf and Mattogno (nearly a decade old) on the Hungarian Jews failed to arrive at any realistic conclusions (after denying homicidal gassings). Where would these Jews have been sent at such a late stage in the war?”[122]
Although the Allies captured most of Germany’s government and camp records intact, Evans fails to explain why no order or documentation has ever been found to exterminate European Jewry nor, indeed, even to acknowledge this fact. When asked in 1983 how the extermination of European Jewry took place without an order, Jewish Holocaust historian Raul Hilberg replied:
In the foregoing discussion, only mainstream and “academically respectable” sources were used to make my case. All material that mainstream academics would label as “Holocaust denialist” was deliberately ignored. This alone should suggest to the reader that there is something seriously amiss with the traditional Holocaust story. Indeed, the list of deceptions, very weak and suspect evidence, highly questionable claims, politically inspired falsehoods, contradictions, and absurdities in the traditional Holocaust doctrine are seemingly endless.[29] For all of these reasons, one can rightfully refer to the orthodox Holocaust story as “the Holocaust mythology.”
Logic – that is to say, math – natural laws that govern incineration processes, technical cremation possibilities at the time, and the expert evaluation of physical evidence, such as experiments and still-existing crematories, as well as documentary evidence, such as construction plans, operating instructions and cremation logs, play no role in her argument at all. She might as well have quoted “survivor testimonies,” some of which claim absolutely absurd cremation capacities. That’s Dr. Lipstadt’s world of lala-science, also called pseudo-science.
After his capture on March 11, 1946 by British occupation troops, Rudolf Höss stayed alive for 401 days and nights, largely on the strength of the (in)credible stories he supplied concerning genocide conducted at the Auschwitz concentration camp during his tours as commandant of the camp. History contains many precedents for every element of Höss’s dolorous fate from the time of his capture. For example, in 2010, I reported remarkable similarities between Höss’s case and that of Henry Wirz, former commandant of the Confederate POW camp at Andersonville Station, Georgia, whose execution in 1865 by the US Army was the only execution of a war criminal to follow the US War between the States.
With this system, the fresh air entering from two intake openings had to be extracted from a single exhaust opening, thus creating a net imbalance in the intake-exhaust system of the original project. Pressac does not explain this obvious anomaly: why 50 intake openings were necessary in Crematorium II, but 95 in Crematorium III.
The beleaguered Germans placed millions of Jews and others in their infamous “concentration camps,” most of which were in fact labor camps not altogether unlike those in Oak Ridge, Tennessee and a thousand other places (including Los Alamos) in the US and elsewhere in the Allies’ territories. Unlike those Allies (except for a famous exception in Bengal, a colony controlled by Ally Great Britain),2 the Germans eventually lost their ability to provision, and combat disease in, their densely populated industrial housing tracts.
The use of false witnesses has been acknowledged by Johann Neuhäusler, who was an ecclesiastical resistance fighter interned in two German concentration camps from 1941 to 1945. Neuhäusler wrote that in some of the American-run trials “many of the witnesses, perhaps 90%, were paid professional witnesses with criminal records ranging from robbery to homosexuality.”[21]
To Irving’s credit, it should be pointed out that he made very efficient use of Faurisson’s “No holes, no Holocaust” argument. According to the “eyewitness evidence” on which the official version of the events is based, Leichenkeller (morgue) 1 of Krematorium II at Auschwitz-Birkenau was used as a homicidal gas chamber where, according to Lipstadt’s expert Robert Jan van Pelt, about 500,000 Jews were murdered in 1943/1944. During the trial, Irving demonstrated that the openings in the roof of Leichenkeller 1, through which the SS allegedly dropped pellets of Zyklon B, did not exist, which means that the alleged crime could not possibly have been perpetrated. In this point, Irving scored a major triumph. Even the judge Charles Grey, who was quite hostile to Irving, honestly admitted in his verdict:
The defendants at the Einsatzgruppen trial did not receive a fair hearing. The shootings carried out by the Einsatzgruppen were not nearly as extensive as claimed at the trial, for the numbers mentioned in the Einsatzgruppen reports cannot be objectively confirmed and in many cases are demonstrably exaggerated. These reports provide no basis in justice or fact to convict the Einsatzgruppen defendants of genocide against Soviet Jewry.[27]
Setkiewicz then moves to the more general problem of the supply of Zyklon B to Auschwitz. He finds that there are no documents that enable determination of the precise number of fumigations that were performed and the relative Zyklon consumption. There is a register of orders for consumables (Verbrauchsmittel) placed by the camp, but it has been preserved only in part, for the months of August 1940, for January, February, and one week in April and June 1941, plus for the time period from August 1941 to November 1942.
This suggests that Russians are gradually becoming cognizant of the negative role that the Holocaust mythology plays in world affairs. Keep in mind that Russians are well aware of the negative and destructive role that certain Jewish groups have played in Soviet Communism and contemporary Russia (e.g.., the oligarchs), and that Russia is a major supplier of Israel’s enemies, Syria and Iran.[65] All of these factors combined could set the stage for a possible future confrontation with Zionist groups and the state of Israel. If this scenario comes to pass, the Russian government may repudiate the Holocaust mythology.
A repudiation of the Holocaust ideology would allow another reappraisal of the crimes, atrocities, genocide and oppression committed by the Stalinist regime. The end result of such historical revisionism would be the demolition of a pillar of Russian patriotic ideology, and the world-wide realization that Stalinist Communism was more oppressive and evil than National Socialism. Indeed, even the bitter intellectual opponent of Holocaust revisionism, Deborah Lipstadt, admits that Stalin killed more people than Hitler ever did.[63]
The same illustration with the same misleading caption can be found in the 2000 and 2003 English editions,[17] but has been removed in the 2019 edition. It is misleading, because it was well known by the time these books were published that this door was never part of a homicidal gas chamber, even if the Auschwitz tour guides were still claiming this in the 1990s and early 2000s, and some may still be doing it today.
The Soviet Union has been consigned to the dustbin of history, but the promotion of the Holocaust ideology still serves the interests of the current Russian government, as they want to instill a sense of national pride in the Russian masses. Here is a statement of the Russian representative to the United Nations in regard to the 2007 United Nations Resolution condemning "Holocaust denial”: "[T]he Red Army had freed the Auschwitz death camp, one of the largest. The memory of the heroism of the Soviet soldiers and the many millions of victims in his country could never reconcile itself with those of ‘opportunistic political interest’ who sought to distort the significance of that history."[60] Thus, the Holocaust mythology forms a cornerstone of Russian nationalism, as it casts the Russian people in the role of “heroic liberators” during WWII.
In an article appearing in the June 25, 1940 issue of the Palm Beach Post, Dr. Nahum Goldmann, who was the administrative committee chairman of the World Jewish Congress, said “if the Nazis should achieve final victory 6,000,000 Jews in Europe are doomed to destruction.” Not one single Jew had been interned by Germany, and Hitler was still pleading for peace, at that time. Yet the so-called Holocaust and the 6 million Jews doomed to destruction was already established.[11]
The attack on Nolte was launched by the leftist philosopher Jürgen Habermas, who took issue not with Nolte's historiography — his essays showed that Habermas was in no position to judge this — but with what he viewed as its ideological implications. Habermas also targeted a couple of other German historians, and added other points, like the plan to establish museums of German history in West Berlin and in Bonn, to the indictment. But Nolte and his thesis have continued to be at the center of the Historikerstreit. He was accused of "historicizing" and "relativizing" the Holocaust and chided for questioning its "uniqueness."
This passage removes the last doubt about the origin of the transports, because the mainly Yiddish-speaking Jews in the Vilna Ghetto would certainly have been able to tell Dutch from German. The dates written on the documents discovered in the drawers also confirm that the Dutch Jews had been brought to Lithuania either in January or February 1943 via Auschwitz or in March or April via Sobibór.
In the end, Demjanjuk’s sentence was repealed. It turned out that the Jewish witnesses – including Rajchman – were “mistaken”: John Demjanjuk had not been “Iwan the Terrible”, and the most crucial piece of evidence against him, an identification card from the SS training camp at Trawniki, had turned out to be a forgery. In 1993 Demjanjuk returned to the United States as a free man (although as is well known, the witch-hunt for him did not end).[79]
[4] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, pp. xii, 7, 32, 39.
And here is the description of the bodies in the gas chamber:
Lipstadt contradicts herself. During the Second World War the Hungarian government, which was allied with Germany, agreed to release forty thousand Jews who ultimately would be allowed to immigrate to Palestine (p. 99). Eichmann opposed the plan, but Lipstadt points out that Hitler supported it (p. 99)! These Jews were not going to be murdered in the “Hitler gas chambers.” This undermines Lipstadt’s claim that killing all Jews was the ultimate goal of Hitler’s Final Solution. Contradictions like this offer the reader another reason to reject the traditional view of the Holocaust and accept a Revisionist interpretation.
It is difficult today, with the construction of the Holocaust obelisk[37] reaching record heights (we have Holocaust museums in every major city in the western world and educational programs and documentaries constantly made in the name of ‘memory’), to see past its sheer enormity. But the fact that those who seek to ask questions of this obelisk, or at least subject it to proper scrutiny, are often shouted down, reviled and even imprisoned, is as clear a demonstration as could be asked for of what Nuremberg really achieved.
Despite the obstacles and the longing for night so prevalent in the universities with regard to Holocaust studies, I've been able to create a tremendous free-press scandal throughout the academic community. My ads call attention to revisionist theory on one campus after another across the nation. My second article, "The Holocaust Controversy: The Case for Open Debate," has run as a full-page ad at Michigan, Duke, Cornell, Rutgers, Ohio State, Georgia, Vanderbilt, Louisiana State, Howard, Arizona, Montana and at half a dozen others. Howard is the largest Black university in the country. When the ad ran at the University of San Diego, the president of that Catholic institution ordered special agents to fan out over the campus and confiscate every copy of the paper still available and destroy it. Prospective entries for a new Catholic Index perhaps?
In the aftermath of the war Yockey obtained a position as an investigator for the War Crimes Tribunal in order to subvert from within the lynching regime that was being imposed upon Europe and to seek out European Rightists who might be able to revive a European resistance movement.
From there, the Holocaust was off on a merry chase that eventually revived the tired World War I canard of soap made from the fat of murdered Jews, lampshades made from human skin, and so on in a litany that is repeated (though critically) even in the pages of this very journal.
In dealing with this and other issues, the bloggers have made use of Soviet interrogations that other authors have chosen not to use. Two cases in particular stand out: the use of Nikolai Shalayev and Ivan Shevchenko to support the idea of the use of a gasoline engine for gassing at Treblinka, and the use of Pavel Leleko to support the idea that the Treblinka cremation facilities were equipped with pits. But introducing these materials introduces problems which the bloggers do not discuss. According to the bloggers' given source,[3] Leleko claimed that the gassing engine was a diesel, contradicting their argument that it was a gasoline engine. In fact, in the same source Leleko indicates that there were two engines used for gassing, occupying two of the ten chambers in the new gas-chamber building – contrary to the usual depiction, which has ten chambers used for gassing and the engine in a separate room. Shevchenko gives yet another version of the layout, with nine chambers used for gassing and one for an engine.[4]
The university was created as a place to exchange thought—freely. Students should not be required to ask permission from special interest groups, no matter what their ethnicity, to think for themselves. Even about the “Holocaust.” Whatever else the Holocaust was, it was an historical event. That event, as well as the controversy surrounding it, should be investigated using routine historical methods.
Niemöller was also a patriotic German who did what he thought was best for Germany. He volunteered to fight in the German Navy during World War II even though Hitler had imprisoned him in Sachsenhausen and Dachau. Niemöller also vigorously opposed Allied denazification policies, protested the injustice of the Allied-run postwar trials in Germany, and sought to alleviate the draconian deprivations imposed by the Allies on Germans after World War II.
In March 1992, a prominent Austrian engineer named Walter Lüftl made headlines when a report he had written stated that the stories of mass extermination of Jews in gas chambers at Auschwitz and Mauthausen are impossible for technical reasons and because they are contrary to inviolable laws of nature. At the time of his report, Lüftl was a court-recognized expert engineer who headed a large engineering firm in Vienna.
Deborah Lipstadt, who was hired to teach Holocaust history at the Jesuit Pontifical Gregorian University closely affiliated with the Vatican, candidly wrote, “David Irving’s arrest and three-year jail sentence for having denied the Holocaust has been met with a chorus of cheers in the Jewish community.”[8]
The rabbi sat down slowly, seriously and silently, and began to examine various documents, written by hand in Yiddish on yellow and white sheets, which had been arranged on his desk for some time. These were opinions from international Orthodox rabbinical case law regarding the bodies of Jews killed during the Shoah. Holding a yellow[ed] sheet in one hand, he raised his eyes and explained to me in English that it had been established that the Jews murdered under the Third Reich were considered tsadiqim, or "saints," and that they had been granted the fullness of eternal life. For this reason, their graves, wherever they were, whether beneath a highway or a garden, must be left intact, so that their peace might not be disturbed (pp. 161-162).
At the foundation of these smears is a profound misunderstanding and misuse of the true lesson of the Holocaust. If any lesson can be learned it should be one of tolerance. But that tolerance must extend to all people and all ideas. To limit the topics or the ideas that can be discussed is to enforce a totalitarian method that is little different from a methodology standpoint than that of any other totalitarian regime – whether the Nazis, the Fascists, or the Communists.
Prof. Douglas, already probably put on guard from my prior questions as to whether his repudiation of the allegations against Churchill also apply in principle to allegations relative to the ‘Holocaust’,[38] commented simply: ‘Indeed I would not, for reasons that are set forth in the book itself’.[39] Yet, whatever the rationalisations Prof. Douglas has used to try and dodge the question of ‘relativising the Holocaust’, any suggestion that there was a large-scale ‘ethnic cleansing’ of any people other than Jews, let alone being described by Yale University Press as the ‘largest recorded’ in history, is going to mark Prof. Douglas down as a ‘Holocaust relativist’ and like John Sack, ‘worse than a Holocaust denier’. A frank opinion was not forthcoming from Prof. Lipstadt when I asked her opinion of the forthcoming Douglas book:
[12] Kollerstrom, Nicholas, Breaking the Spell: The Holocaust, Myth and Reality, Uckfield, UK: Castle Hill Publishers, 2014, pp. 158-174.
Ainsi y trouve-t-on avec la mention « SURVIVED » Simone Veil, Henri Krasucki et Simone Lagrange (Simy Kadosche, qui n’était qu’une enfant que les Allemands auraient oublié de gazer) ; on y trouve aussi, mais sans qu’on puisse le reprocher au Yad Vashem, de nombreux Juifs rescapés que Klarsfeld a déclaré morts; on citera par exemple Raphaël Esrail, secrétaire d’une association de déportés, ou encore Marie Reille, une catholique déportée par erreur que les Allemands renvoyèrent d’Auschwitz en France. On en a parlé lors du procès Papon.
Then the selection followed. Old and disabled who could not walk were loaded onto trucks and driven off. He never saw them again. He and the rest went to Birkenau on foot for the shower and the haircut. They stayed in quarantine for a month, as to which he writes:
In his book Dachau, 1933-1945: The Official History, Paul Berben used Neuhäusler’s table indicating that 868 out of 1,780 Polish priests in Dachau died.[21] Berben wrote that some 500 Polish clergy, most of them elderly, arrived in Dachau by train in deplorable condition on October 29, 1941. Berben said these clergymen were not issued adequate winter clothes, and that only 82 survived their internment in Dachau.[22] Zeller writes that more than 300 of these mostly elderly disabled Polish clergymen were sent to the carbon-monoxide gas chamber at Hartheim Castle in Austria.[23]
That witness statements in such cases are unreliable has been shown in other cases, notably those of Frank Walus and John Demjanjuk. In  2005 The Australian published a story about the collapse of what it then called ‘the last big war crimes trial in Germany’.[79] A German judge had released 88 year-old Ladislav Niznansky on the grounds that there was ‘insufficient evidence to convict him’. The witnesses were too aged; their memories too erratic; their testimony broke down under cross examination; the paper trail was inconclusive; and evidence might have been manipulated by communist authorities after World War Two to falsely incriminate Niznansky because of his resolute anti-communism.
This brings us to the building known as “Bath and Disinfection Unit I,” which allegedly held the other four chambers. Fortunately, it remains standing to this day, and thus can be easily examined.
The denial of all motions to introduce evidence in such cases is nowhere near the end of the judicial repressive measures. Certain courageous lawyers did not accept their gagging, but instead proceeded unflinchingly in the face of threats by the legal authorities and the judges. They nevertheless kept filing motions with which they tried to defend their clients. The result was the 1994 introduction of the previously mentioned muzzling Section 257a into the German Code of Criminal Procedure, that empowered judges to require all motions except closing arguments to be submitted in writing. And that is exactly what regularly happens in such cases.
We see a similar legal defense strategy in regard to the Germans who stood trial for alleged crimes committed at Sobibor. Karl Werner Dubois, who was sentenced to three years imprisonment at the 1966 Sobibor trial for his alleged involvement in mass murder, explained an overall defense strategy: “What should be taken into account is that we did not act on our own initiative, but in the context of the Reich’s Final Solution to the Jewish problem.”[112]
It seems clear that elements in the Jewish world community, who, as it is also clear, have great power over Western governments, including those of the US and Germany, decided that Demjanjuk must be given his comeuppance and the success gained for opponents of the ‘Nazi war crimes’ process cancelled out by the finding of another guilty verdict somewhere else. And the evidence suggests that, once again, truth and the cause of true justice and rightly conducted law processes were not to be allowed to stand in the way.
Because of his opportunism and eagerness to please those in power, Diels’s statements offer insight into the thinking of the War Crimes investigators. For instance, his statement notes that “It might well be that ‘spotted fever’ was also a term used as camouflage for gassing operations.”[175] This was exactly the kind of simple-minded argument that War Crimes investigators were eager to put forward. Indeed, at the Tesch trial the prosecution argued that the evidence of Broad and Bendel “put it beyond doubt” that the story of disinfestation was only “a cover and facade - a facade peculiarly dear to the mind of the SS”.[176] The prosecution applied this notion of a facade across the board, stating that “throughout that correspondence there is a duplicity to each word used. Either it is a genuine disinfection that the SS require, or it is the cover for the biggest murder one can imagine.”[177] While it is beyond the scope of this paper to examine each one of the trial documents in detail, it is clear that all of them concern disinfestation. Diels’s statements relating Tesch to the euthanasia program also reflect the investigation’s thinking: on the basis of some details in a May 1945 report on euthanasia,[178] they seem to have convinced themselves that Tesch had delivered Zyklon for the purpose of euthanasia gassings.[179]
Further even than this, however, we have the allegations that the Nazis instigated a plan to kill all the Jews of Europe ‘The Final Solution’ and used homicidal gas chambers to do so. Yet we see that these two claims were only really evidenced by the affidavits and testimonies of Wisliceny and Höss, (and Ohlendorf to some extent) which have large question marks hanging over them as shall be explained below.
This new line of German legal thinking is breathtaking in its unfairness. It incorrectly assumes that some German concentration camps were used for the sole purpose of exterminating people when, in fact, none of them was. Moreover, this proposed German law finds a person guilty merely for being at a certain camp. People can be found guilty of a crime even when no evidence is presented that they committed a crime. The Simon Wiesenthal Center has been looking to help prosecute and convict other elderly German guards under this line of German legal thinking.[38]
As a result of his on-site examination of the alleged German homicidal gas chambers, Fred Leuchter writes: “After reviewing all of the material and inspecting all of the sites at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek, your author finds the evidence to be overwhelming. There were no execution gas chambers at any of these locations. It is the best engineering opinion of this author that the alleged gas chambers at the inspected sites could not have been, or now be, utilized or seriously considered to function as execution gas chambers.”[5]
In extreme cases where all the evidence is in documents that must be read in seclusion, this means that the public finds out absolutely nothing about the content of any evidence. This also makes a mockery of the principle of public hearings.
The installer of the Topf Company, Heinrich Messing, worked on the ventilation system of Morgue #1 of Crematorium II in the week from March 8, to March 14, 1943. He performed functional tests, and on March 13 he activated the system (“Be- und Entlüftungsanlagen Keller I in Betrieb genommen”, “Intake and exhaust ventilation systems in the basement I activated.”)[15]
It would be difficult to overstate how much emphasis was placed on the size of the Zyklon supply to Auschwitz during the Tesch investigation and trial. According to the prosecution, the supply was so large that Tesch must have known that the gas was used for extermination. TESTA’s employees, under arrest at the time, were pressured to provide support for this argument. Meanwhile, in his first interrogation, Tesch had indicated skepticism towards this line of argument:
The Holocaust is so important that the United Nations even decided to create a dedicated memorial day for it. Every January 27th, the day when the infamous Auschwitz Camp was occupied by the Soviet Red Army in 1945, the whole world is reminded to commemorate the victims of the Holocaust.[2] In 2017, on the occasion of this International Holocaust Remembrance Day, the White House under U.S. President Donald Trump released this statement:[3]
These modifications presented obvious advantages: there was a direct access to the morgue area and stretchers could be handled with ease; furthermore, a new second entrance (at least for Crematorium II) or the old stairway-cum chute (at Crematorium III) allowed service personnel to enter the basement rooms without having to pass through the mortuary area.
According to the revisionist hypothesis, the Jews sent to the occupied eastern territories can be divided into two main groups: 1) the Jews from the transports sent directly to the Baltic States and Belarus from Altreich, Ostmark and the Protectorate in 1941-42 (recognized by mainstream historiography); 2) the Jews who were allegedly “gassed without prior registration” in the six “extermination camps” between December 1941 and late 1943. For the first group we have rather reliable numbers (see above, Section 2.1.). For the second group we have reliable figures of arrivals to the Reinhardt camps (Bełżec, Sobibór, Treblinka, here also including Majdanek/Lublin) for 1942, and the Korherr Report further provides a figure for Chełmno (where no “gassings” took place in 1943). For the year of 1943 we must to a certain extent rely on estimates presented by mainstream historians. In the case of Auschwitz-Birkenau, we have to rely on a number of sources, which are more or less exact. In order to not make this article longer than necessary, I will here refer the reader to a revisionist study wherein these calculations are presented in detail.[66] In the table below the number of Jews deported to the east is broken down according to routes and nationality (Polish and non-Polish Jews). One should recall here that not all of the non-Polish Jews are Western Jews (even if they form the majority).
Irma Grese and Josef Kramer standing in the courtyard of the Prisoner of War cage at Celle. Kramer said that the gas chamber story was “untrue from beginning to end.” Both were convicted of war crimes and sentenced to death. Aug. 8, 1945. Source Imperial War Museum collection: unrestricted access.
Another participant of the conference, Isidor Wolfe, a lawyer from Vancouver, Canada, exclaimed, “This growing revisionist group is using web sites to make amazingly ridiculous claims, like that they measured the gas chambers and found they were not big enough for people.”
Despite the fact that it is impossible to kill 2,500 people in 6-7 minutes, this description is in disagreement with the official claims. Nadjari speaks of ONE opening covered by a concrete slab, where there should have been four. Furthermore, the SS are supposed to have introduced the Zyklon in a basket which was then lowered into the chamber through iron-mesh columns. After the execution the Zyklon was removed by pulling the basket back up. But Nadjari has them simply emptying the cans in the hole.
Thus, at the present moment, any revision or repeal of Holocaust Denial laws seems out of the question as more countries fall meekly into line with the majority nations, enacting laws designed to punish, ostracize and relegate skeptics to the ‘lunatic fringe’ of society. The recent violent attack upon the Holocaust Museum in Washington by a crazed sociopathic personality merely adds fuel to the existing fire. Moreover, legislators appear to be of the opinion that enactment of such laws provides ‘legitimate status’ to nations desiring recognition, and/or ‘parity’ with the great powers of the occident. Cynics, on the other hand, perceive their performance in more prosaic terms as jumping on the bandwagon.
For the years 1940-1945, Engemann, Schöning and Bock, based on the Veränderungsmeld-ungen, ascertained a figure of 19,900 prisoners who had died in the camp. This result largely confirmed the death toll reported by the SS. In a report he produced for the ESC in Moscow, the head of the Sachsenhausen Commission, Lieutenant Colonel A. Sharitch, adopted this figure. In 2003, Carlo Mattogno arrived at a slightly higher number (20,173).[2] This author (K.S.), who based his analysis on the Häftlingsbewegung data rather than the Veränderungsmeldungen and considered the whole period of existence of the camp (1936-1945), comes to the conclusion that Sachsenhausen claimed altogether 21,999 victims.
“the nation’s only commercial supplier of execution equipment…A trained and accomplished engineer, he is versed in all types of execution equipment. He makes lethal-injection machines, gas chambers, and gallows, as well as electrocution systems…”
No documentary or credible material trace exists of the alleged gas chambers at Treblinka. We would know nothing about the Treblinka gas chambers except for the testimony of a small number of eyewitnesses.
Curtis next genuflects before the ideal of free speech and the First Amendment of the United States Constitution that guarantees freedom of speech and expression. However, his following point amounts to a rejection of that ideal and the principle of that law. He applauds the removal by Google of some videos on one of its sites “that were expressions of denial of the Holocaust.” These were produced by Vincent Reynouard, a French revisionist. Curtis justifies this removal as not “a denial of free speech” but as correct observation of the law by the removal of “criminal” material.
Die gleiche Art von Irreführung wird vom Holocaust Memorial Museum der USA auf seiner Webseite begangen: (Großbuchstaben hinzugefügt):
Our garrison surgeon informs us that, of late, Zyklon B gassing chambers are to be converted to “Ariginal gassing.” Garrison surgeon wanted to get in touch with you directly in connection with the corresponding modifications.[12]
[39] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, pp. 176-177.
He who in public incites to hatred of or discrimination against a person or group of persons because of their racial, ethnic or religious relationship…He who in public propagates ideologies based on a systematic deprecation or defamation of members of a race, ethnic group or religion…He who for this same end organizes, promotes or takes part in propaganda activities…He who in public by means of the spoken word, writings, pictorial descriptions, gestures, acts of violence and in any other manner degrades and discriminates in a way that infringes the human dignity of a person or group of persons because of their racial, ethnic or religious relationship, or who for one of these reasons denies, grossly minimizes or tries to justify a genocide or other crimes against humanity…will be punished with jail or with a fine.[23]
Your Secretary of State has made belief in the "Shoah" a criterion for holding office in the Church. Is the rabbinic "Shoah" mysticism now a dogma of the Roman Catholic Church?
Consider the testimony of Sobibor survivor, Zelda Metz. She claims the village in which she lived was only fifty kilometers from Sobibor, and Polish peasants were well aware that it was an extermination center for Jews; they “saw evidence” of this with their own two eyes. She recalls: “Polish peasants told me that Jews came to Sobibor in all directions, and that they were murdered. ‘We see the flames of the crematoria from a distance of fifteen kilometers,’ they used to say. We lived in terror.”[78]
Remembering Deir Yassin is for Palestinians what remembering the massacre at Kelcie is for Jews. In the words of the director of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, memorials ‘help us honor the dead, enlighten the living, and pave the way for a better future for everyone.’ Remembering Deir Yassin helps us to preserve the memory of those who died there and of those who have been uprooted all over Palestine by a criminal movement to cleanse the land of the Arabs who have lived on it for centuries. Remembering Deir Yassin protects history, preserves it, and teaches the lessons of what happens when the values of civilization and humanity are flouted.
Among traditional historians, the argument runs as follows: although the basements of Crematoria II and III were not originally planned as gas chambers; they were modified for the purpose some time in late 1942. This meant (why, actually?) that holes had to be broken into the roof slab and little chimneys raised above them through which the Zyklon B pellets would be dropped into wire-mesh columns below. These latter devices assured an even distribution of the pellets and enabled their extraction, back up through the chimneys, as soon as the victims had died; removal of the bodies could thus start almost immediately. The reasons for such a rush to empty the gassing chamber are a bit unclear because the killing capacity of the morgues in any case exceeded the cremation capacity of the ovens; thus killing even more people than the crematorium could process would have would have made it difficult to dispose of the bodies promptly.
If Auschwitz-Birkenau had been a place of mass exterminations, why would the German authorities leave behind thousands of disabled Jews such as Otto Frank to testify to their genocide? The SS would have easily been able to gas and cremate these Jewish inmates in Crematorium V at Birkenau during the first week of January 1945.[2]
In early 1943 there lived 13,000 Jews in the Italian jurisdiction. Following the downfall of Mussolini on 8 September 1943, this part of Greece was taken by German forces together with the former Italian-occupied territories of Albania, Montenegro and the Dodecanese islands. All in all approximately 16,000 Jews lived in these areas. Up until July 1944 more than 14,000 of these Jews had been deported, primarily to Auschwitz. In all of the mentioned areas some 12,000 remained at the end of the occupation.[44]
“Such thinking was not exclusively German. US, British, French, Polish and Japanese politicians suggested resettlement schemes. The Polish Prime Minister in exile, Władysław Sikorski, suggested the resettlement of 3.5 million Polish Jews to the British Foreign Minister, Anthony Eden, as late as in January 1942. Other deportation destinations suggested were Alaska, Dutch Guyana and various other South American countries, Manchuria, Angola, Ethiopia, Northern Rhodesia and the Philippines. Jewish emigration to Palestine added to the territorial resettlement options. During the Evian conference, Polish and Romanian diplomats urged President Roosevelt of the US (unsuccessfully) to include the emigration of their Jewish nationals in the work of the Intergovernmental Committee on Political Refugees.” (p. 60)
In France and in the rest of the world, historians and specialists of the “Holocaust” no longer know what to answer to the revisionists’ arguments. And to speak only of my own case, which has been going on since 1978 (that is, for some thirty-seven years), never has my country’s justice system, despite the tireless requests by self-righteous associations to rule against me on the substance of my writings or statements, been able to note therein the least trace of any rashness, negligence, deliberate ignorance, falsehood, falsification or lying. My adversaries, rich and powerful though they may be, have never succeeded in getting our judges to convict me on the merits of the conclusions reached through my research work which, for over half a century, has focused on what is commonly called “the genocide of the Jews,” “the Nazi gas chambers” and “the six million (or nearly)” Jewish victims of the Third Reich. At most, after countless cases I have lost suits (whether as plaintiff or defendant) or been found guilty mainly: 1) for a malevolence, supposed but not demonstrated, towards the Jews; 2) for breaking the gayssotine (the Fabius-Gayssot or Faurisson Act, legislation of convenience specifically targeting the findings of my research); or 3) by virtue of the “good faith” (sic) of individuals like Léon Poliakov or Robert Badinter, even though found to be at fault by the judges themselves.
Although Hitler and Hess both denied that Hess flew to Scotland with Hitler’s knowledge and approval,[20] the available evidence suggests that Hitler knew and approved of Hess’s mission. The relationship between Hess and Hitler was so close that one can logically assume that Hess would not have undertaken such an important step without first informing Hitler. Also, Hess was prohibited from speaking publicly about his mission during his later 40-year period of imprisonment in Spandau Prison. This “gag order” was obviously imposed because Hess knew things that, if publicly known, would be highly embarrassing to the Allied governments.[21]
According to original German wartime blueprints, Morgue #1, the alleged homicidal gas chamber of Crematorium III at Birkenau, was 30 m long and 7 m wide, hence had an area of 210 m² (2,260 sq ft; ignoring the seven pillars of altogether a little over 1 m²). Deutsche Welle quotes Nadjari as saying that the prisoners were pressed into the room “like sardines” by whipping them.
“We must anticipate tomorrow,” Father Desbois added, referring to still powerful anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial, “when people will start to say, ‘No, nothing happened here.’”
Eichmann doggedly testified at his “trial,” confirming in the minds of his captors and their sympathizers his guilt for all time. The same testimony, in the minds of otherwise-motivated auditors, largely exonerated Eichmann of anything worse than carrying out his orders, and even indicted some leaders of Jewish communities for at least as much guilt in carrying out the Holocaust as Eichmann himself could be seen to bear. While the entire process was literally terminal for Eichmann, it provided an auspicious launch not only for the Holocaust culture we observe everywhere today, but for its unlovely offspring, the aggressive young Israel. Eichmann “gave” his life for Israel, and for generations of Holocaust victims as yet unborn.
In addition to torturing and intimidating defendants into making confessions, some defendants did not live to see the beginning of their trials. For example, Richard Baer, the last commandant of Auschwitz, adamantly denied the existence of homicidal gas chambers in his pre-trial interrogations at the Frankfurt Auschwitz Trial. Baer died in June 1963 under mysterious circumstances while being held in pretrial custody. An autopsy performed on Baer at the Frankfurt-am-Main University School of Medicine said that the ingestion of an odorless, non-corrosive poison could not be ruled out as a cause of death.
Do we need a reappraisal of Adolf Hitler? Yes, we do. Though the so-called factual basis of the Holocaust has been debunked by revisionists … The homicidal gas chambers, gone ... The intention and plan to kill all of Europe's Jews, never found, doesn't exist ... The 6,000,000 murdered Jews. an impossible fantasy number used again and again since before WWI … yet in spite of the loss of all that, we're still left with the commonly-held belief in a criminal Adolf Hitler.
”In August 1941 a first transport of 2,000 Soviet prisoners of war arrived at the Sachsenhausen camp. They were housed in various isolated barracks. Within 4-5 days, all prisoners of war were shot in the shooting ditch [“tir“ in Russian]. During their stay in the camp the Soviet prisoners of war were given neither food nor water. As witnesses stated, they were led to the place of execution in a state of utter exhaustion. As soon as the barracks had been emptied from the first group, a second transport consisting of 2,000 Soviet prisoners of war was brought to the camp and shot as well.
As to the rest, Venezia is extremely evasive. He does not mention the official date of the supposed[237] revolt (7 October 1944), but speaks generically of the beginning of October[238]; he does not mention the supposed preliminary selection and gassing at the end of September 1944 of 200 prisoners of the "Sonderkommando" of Crematoria IV and V, which is supposed to have triggered the revolt a few days afterwards[239]; he does mention the number of supposed casualties: 451; he does not mention the number of survivors: 212, most of them prisoners from Crematoria III and V; he does not mention the supposed selection on 26 November 1944, over the course of which another 100 prisoners are supposed to have been killed. He asserts that "the day afterwards", i.e., 18 October, "the Germans ordered that thirty persons be selected to continue work on Crematorium II and I decided to form part of the group"[240], while, by contrast, according to the official version, the 30 prisoners were selected on 26 November to work on Crematorium V. He adds:
This being my first visit to Auschwitz, I decided to see it as a tourist would. This was not only easier (I was travelling alone), but allowed me to better understand the “official” portrayal of the camp and of events there. Auschwitz is the number one tourist destination in all of Poland; about 1.3 million visit the camp every year—coincidentally, about the same number as is alleged to have been killed there. The official guided tours dictate a particular image of the camp, and I was as interested in this image as the camp itself. I wanted to see what the public sees.
At least into early 1942 (see entry for March 7), it was seriously proposed to round up all the European Jews and ship them to Madagascar, which was to be forcibly acquired from France. This fact, of course, is of central importance to the holocaust: if the Nazis wanted to ship them out, then obviously there was no plan for mass murder. To further complicate the traditional account, we need only observe that Chelmno, Auschwitz, and Belzec were all allegedly underway in March 1942. And in fact it is worse than this, because talk of deportation continues right up until the end of the war.
Despite working as a secretary, she had a really hard time at Auschwitz. But what exactly does she tell us regarding the extermination claims?
In order to emphasize the alleged particular savagery and aggressiveness of National Socialism, Soviet propaganda regularly emphasized that citizens of numerous nations had been confined in the concentration camps liberated by the Red Army. As the German Reich had been at war with most of these nations, this was hardly surprising – not to mention the fact that in all countries allied with or occupied by Germany there had been militant resistance movements and that Germany had hosted millions of foreign workers, both voluntary and involuntary. Under these circumstances, foreign nationals could be consigned to concentration camps for a multitude of reasons.
Since the late 19th century, Germany was incapable of growing sufficient food for its growing population; they were forced to export or starve. This brought them into economic conflict with other European nations that must also compete for overseas markets. This problem became even more acute after the post-war loss of formerly eastern German lands to Poland. We let political analyst Chamberlin describe the dilemma: “In short, Germany, never self-sufficient in food, was first to be deprived much of its best arable land, located in the regions transferred to Poland, and was also to be placed under a multitude of restrictions extremely prejudiced to its industry and foreign trade.”[44] The present German government is faced with delicate problems with regard to approval from other nations, for the reason of satisfying the basic economic needs of the nation. Thus, as a result of the ongoing, decades long and overwhelming propaganda deluge against National Socialist Germany, successive German governments were forced to disavow everything that Germany of 1933-1945 represented.[45]
The suggestion regarding a “central office” for the handling and decision-making vis-à-vis the Jewish transports to the Ostland brings up an important question, namely how the resettlement of the Jews was practically administered. From documents such as the correspondence of Ganzenmüller and Wolff[29] and the Reuter memo[30] it appears that the transports to the transit camps were carried out according to schedules, with a set number of Jews sent to the Reinhardt camps daily or weekly. Testimonial as well as archeological evidence indicates that the arrivals in these three camps underwent some form of registration.[31] According to a 15 November 1942 report on Treblinka the deportees after their arrival at the camp were subdivided according to their professions:
A separate register of deceased prisoners seems to have been maintained for the Stalag (Stammlager für Kriegsgefangene) since 22 October 1941. This document has not survived. The mortality among the Soviet POWs was staggeringly high. A surviving list[10] about the (presumably) first two Russian transports reveals a horrific death toll: In the period from 18 October to 30 December 1941 altogether 2,508 Soviet POWs had been admitted to Sachsenhausen; however on 30 December 1941 only 1,360 of them were still alive. In other words: 1,148 prisoners (46% of the total) had died within these two and a half months, most of them undoubtedly from typhus.
“The Tribunal shall not require proof of facts of common knowledge but shall take judicial notice thereof. It shall also take judicial notice of official governmental documents and reports of the United Nations, including the acts and documents of the committees set up in the various allied countries for the investigation of war crimes, and of records and findings of military or other Tribunals of any of the United Nations.”
To obtain the necessary manpower, Himmler, in July 1941, ordered the construction of a concentration camp at Lublin, planned for 25,000-50,000 inmates not further specified. But when the initial military successes against the Soviet Union caused a great number of prisoners to fall into German hands, Himmler decided that the labor projects were to be carried out by Soviet prisoners of war and as a result ordered the creation of a Kriegsgefangenenlager at Lublin, the first plan for which dates back to 7 October 1941[31].
Diese Gasrohre und Handabdrücke sind kein Beweis für Nazi-Gräueltaten, sondern Beweise für eine vorsätzliche psychologische Kriegsführung der Alliierten zur Dämonisierung der besiegten Deutschen. Weil dieser Schwindel so offensichtlich ist, wurde er nie von irgendeinem etablierten Historiker ernst genommen. Das hindert jedoch das US-Holocaust-Gedenkmuseum nicht daran, ihn einem ahnungslosen Publikum vorzuführen. Leider akzeptieren die meisten Leute schlicht, was auch immer die Regierung, Medien oder Religion ihnen vorgeben zu glauben.
Evans writes about the “Holocaust”:
Are these revisionist contentions so odious as to cause those who believe them to be reviled, beaten, and imprisoned? More importantly, is it possible that revisionist contentions are true, or even partially true, and that they are despised because they contradict the story of the Holocaust, a story which has been elevated to the level of a religion in hundreds of films, memorials, museums, and docu-dramas?
Sanning also writes that Jewish sources document that a minimum of 200,000 Jews died while fighting in Allied armies during the war.[18] These Jewish combat deaths cannot be attributed to a German program of genocide against the Jews. Thus, the 6 million Jewish deaths mention by Black in the “Holocaust” is a ridiculous exaggeration which has no basis in reality.
Pezzetti is proven wrong even by the diagram of Birkenau reproduced in the book, in which "Bunker 2" (designated "M 2") appears equipped with two undressing barracks![83]
Jewish people have been implicated in crimes against Palestinian humanity at least since the massacre at Deir Yassin. To ignore this, while exhorting the whole world to “never forget” man's inhumanity to man, counters the message so dramatically portrayed in every Holocaust memorial from Los Angeles to Berlin to Sydney and particularly in Jerusalem, where the message is repeated in view of the remains of those Palestinians massacred at Deir Yassin.
Not being an historian (and not having the constitutional fortitude for serious historical research), I will leave it to revisionist scholars to engage Cole’s interpretation of the timeline, the documentary mens rea and such other circumstantial evidence that might or might not support the conclusion that the eastern camp system served for a time as a full-on gas-and-burn death factory. I’m confident they’ll have plenty to say, since this whole area seems to have assumed prominence as the focal point of revisionist (and anti-revisionist) critique over the past decade or so, as evidenced by the widely viewed video documentary, One Third of the Holocaust, by the forensic researches of Fritz Berg, and by the voluminous output of guys like Germar Rudolf, Carlo Mottagno, Thomas Kues, Jürgen Graf and others, often in rebuttal to the mud-slinging gang of anti-revisionist gadflies over at the “Holocaust Controversies” site. Cole may not have come looking for an argument, but he’ll have one if he wants it. One can only hope that the debate, if it comes, will proceed with a modicum of civility. Whether Cole’s argument is sincere or tactical (and I’m inclined to believe he is sincere), it should be received as an invitation for revisionists to clarify and supplement their mounting counterargument in a spirit of good faith.
[31] Black, Edwin, IBM and the Holocaust: The Strategic Alliance between Nazi Germany and America’s Most Powerful Corporation, New York: Crown Publishers, 2001, p. 16.
“Racist. Antisemite. Holocaust Denier. How History Will Judge David Irving”
Just as little is it planned to impose definite limits on the totalitarian power of judges to evaluate evidence, such as that one would require that the evaluation be logical and be internally free of contradiction and with regard to the evidence. But without a verbatim transcript, the logical conclusiveness would be hard to determine, and any contradiction to witness testimony could never be even considered.
As the world prepared to enter the 21st Century, public attention was once again riveted on the issue of “Holocaust denial” when Germar Rudolf, who had sought asylum in Great Britain, fled to American shores after an article published in the Sunday Telegraph revealed the fact that he had been secretly hiding in Great Britain under his wife’s maiden name. The “expose” duplicitously referred to Rudolf as a “neo-Nazi,” who had “absconded in 1995 rather than serve a 14-month jail sentence for breaching Germany’s Holocaust-denial legislation.”[44]
Photo 1: Auschwitz parking lot.
Alledgedly Gyarmati was re-arrested on 6 May by the Soviets, who accused him of “collaboration with the Fascists”. From August 1945 he was interned as prisoner No. 97179 in the newly established Soviet Sonderlager (special camp) without being formally charged with any crime. He once again worked as a doctor in the camp hospital before being released on 7 February 1950.[27] Having been sent to Sachsenhausen as late as August 1944 Gyarmati cannot have contributed much to the Prisoner’s Report. In all likelihood he was encouraged to sign the report because the signers needed an Italian.
“Harsh and cruel is the religion of the Shoah” commented Bradley Smith, concerning the fate of a colleague of Bishop Williamson who spoke out in support.[7] On 29 January 2009 don Floriano Abrahamowicz, a Dominican Catholic priest, representing Northeast Italy for the SSPX, dared to speak some words in support of the Bishop: “I know that there were disinfection chambers in the German camps during the war” he declared, adding that he did not know whether these were also used for killing people. Lying through its teeth, the Vatican accused him of ‘denying the fact of the Shoah’ – the Shoah signifies the collective suffering the Jewish people during the War. The fraternity expelled him, i.e. he could no longer exercise his ministry, then the next thing he knew he was locked out of his own church, which was also his house: all for claiming that he ‘did not know’ something, about what had happened sixty years ago and a thousand miles away. He will only be allowed back to the church on condition that he ‘repents.’
And how was it imaginable that 200,000 bodies could have been recovered from out of the ruins in less than a month? It would have required a veritable army of people to undertake such work, and hundreds of sorely needed vehicles to transport the bodies. The effort actually undertaken to recover bodies was considerable, but there was no evidence that it reached the levels required to remove this number.[30]
In a later, second statement Kramer retracted this, stating that he had seen one gas chamber in Auschwitz, which was under the command of Rudolf Höss. In court Kramer explained the gas chamber denial of his first statement by claiming that he had felt bound by his word of honour as long as Hitler and Himmler were still alive (Himmler died, allegedly by his own hand, on May 21, 1945).
In fact the claim of millions of non-Jewish victims dates from the war itself. In early propaganda about concentration camps, Jews sometimes were not mentioned at all. What has happened is that the original story of German atrocities, which emphasized a diversity of victims in order to convince non-Jews that the war was necessary, has gradually been overshadowed by Zionist propaganda that essentially has no use for non-Jewish victimhood.
[28] Bazyler, Michael, Holocaust, Genocide, and the Law: A Quest for Justice in a Post-Holocaust World, New York: Oxford University Press, 2016, p. 106.
Just as undeniable are – next to the hundreds of thousands of Jewish dead – the rediscovered, roughly one million concentration-camp inmates and escapees in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, etc., that is, the apparently missing. The world continues to wait for an answer from the Zionists, what countries they come from, how many there were and from which concentration camps or ghettos they come (the head of the UNRRA of Germany Sir Frederick Morgan, the Israeli Mossad agent David Kimche, the year-long president of the Jewish World Congress Dr. Nahum Goldmann, the American Jewish Year Book, also the U.S. War Refugee Board, the Institute of Jewish Affairs, as well as the HICEM-Jewish Colonization Association). Instead, a stubborn silence!
Where on earth had Bock and his comrades gotten all this information? The prisoners had no access to the northern industrial court. The handful of crematorium workers who had to dispose of the dead bodies were bound to strict secrecy and lodged apart from the other inmates. Accordingly not a single witness is mentioned in the reports of the “Russenaktion”. Nor do we learn when the first Soviet POWs arrived at Sachsenhausen or when their “slaughter” began. As to the killing method, the authors of the report remain rather vague. Apparently they did not know anything about prisoners being shot in the back of the neck through an opening in the wall (a method described in detail by subsequent inmate-authors) until their memory was duly refreshed (see following paragraph).
[31] Rudolf, Germar, The Chemistry of Auschwitz: The Technology and Toxicology of Zyklon B and the Gas Chambers—A Crime-Scene Investigation, Uckfield, Great Britain: Castle Hill Publishers, 2017, pp. 174-175.
In conclusion, the “verified” victims of the presumed extermination camps are said to have amounted to approximately 12,000 people. Even if we add the 3,863 Gypsies who were shot, the approximate total of 118,500 presumed murder victims and the approximately 11,250 deaths at Auschwitz, the total number of victims would amount to approximately 145,600, well off the propagandistic official figure of 500,000 and still further from reality, since in this group the number of murder victims – 130,500 Gypsies – is documentarily unfounded and purely conjectural. The number of documentarily verified dead and murdered Gypsies is in fact (12,617 + 1,200 + 2,663 =) 16,480, excluding the deaths among the approximately (35,000 – 20,943 =) 14,047 internees in the concentration camps other than Auschwitz, which may amount to a few thousand more at most. In practical terms, 4% of the mythical figure of 500,000.
Did Lipstadt ever consider the possibility that the story of the “specially adapted cement-mixer apparatuses” is another concocted Holocaust tale, like the “steam chambers” of Treblinka, the “electrocution chambers” of Belzec, and the “soap factories” that utilized the bodies of dead Jews?[37] Was the “cement mixer” story cooked up to account for the lack of physical evidence for the Holocaust? Keep in mind that, with the exposé of Simon Wiesenthal’s “Five Million Murdered Gentiles” Myth, Lipstadt confirmed that the Holocaust ideology contains deliberate falsehoods, which are intelligently designed to achieve definite political goals (pp. 8-9).
In a 1972 visit to Sobibor, British journalist Gitta Sereny claimed she identified the site of the “gas chambers.” British Holocaust historian Martin Gilbert identified a different location for the “gas chambers” in a 1997 book. The Israeli and Polish archaeologists who are investigating the camp now say that both are wrong, and the exact site of these Sobibor “gas chambers” has not been scientifically determined.[56 ]
The investigation of the Malmédy trial conducted by the Senate Committee on Armed Services determined that there was “little or no evidence” to support Van Roden’s claim that the Malmédy defendants had been physically abused.[18] Judge Edward L. Van Roden testified at this hearing that he never said that 137 of 139 German prisoners had their testicles damaged beyond repair as reported in The Progressive magazine.[19] However, the committee determined that improper pretrial procedures such as mock trials had adversely influenced the trial process, if not the outcome.[20]
Also according to witness statements, the Birkenau crematories are said to have been in basically uninterrupted operation from May 1944 into the late summer of 1944, when the Nazis are said to have exterminated up to half a million Jews from Hungary and up to 70,000 Jews from the Lodz Ghetto.
When asked in 1983 how the extermination of European Jewry took place without an order, Jewish Holocaust historian Raul Hilberg replied:[7]
In the case of “Jews murdered my the Nazis and their accomplices”, given that there is not a single documented name of a supposedly gassed victim (since there is neither documentary evidence of “gas chambers” nor of “gassings”), there is no list of names of Jews executed by the Einsatzgruppen in conjunction with the Police. There remain only the lists of Jews killed in retaliation by order of SS courts, while attempting to escape etc. which are extremely small categories from a numerical point of view.
“Mattogno, Carlo, Auschwitz: The End of a Legend, Newport Beach: IHR, 1994, pp. 60-62. Available in German translation as ‘Auschwitz: das Ende einer Legende’ at www.codoh.com/inter/intnackt/intnackausch3.html
Shlomo Venezia arrived in Auschwitz/Birkenau on April 11, 1944 and soon began work with the Sonderkommandos.[26] Venezia’s work initially involved carrying bodies removed from Bunker 2 to nearby ditches. Venezia said: “The ditches sloped down, so that, as they burned, the bodies discharged a flow of human fat down the ditch to a corner where a sort of basin had been formed to collect it. When it looked as if the fire might go out, the men had to take some of that liquid fat from the basin, and throw it onto the fire to revive the flames. I saw this only in the ditches of Bunker 2.”[27]
“On January 18, 1945 the evacuation of Birkenau Auschwitz was at an end. We, since morning, had been shut away in Block 13. We were a hundred. Our anguish was indescribable. While the others were leaving the camp, we were locked up. They had emptied the entire camp, the only ones left were us and some other little departments and almost all of the Germans. Every so often we would hear blasting around us and especially in the crematoriums. Around dusk, we suddenly see a huge column of prisoners who had left at noon returning back to the camp. We could not stand it anymore being shut away, we exited the Block and intermingled with the others. They looked for us a couple of times but none of us showed up.” (p. 102)
Thus, such eminent Defenders of the Holocaust Faith as Deborah Lipstadt and Yehuda Bauer have now written Gypsies and Poles out of the Holocaust, not only by defining the Holocaust as an exclusively Jewish event but by drastically revising the non-Jewish death-toll downward. In other words, Jewish authorities now emphatically deny the non-Jewish Holocaust.
Returning to the statements of Venezia, the gas-tight windows in the disinfestation chambers (and supposed homicidal gas chambers) did not open "with a device", but with a simple butterfly wrench. The witness confuses the opening system of the windows with that of the cans of Zyklon B, which, specifically, were opened with a special device, which was called a "Schlageisen", "chisel".
“The National Socialist administration of Germany assigned the same fate to the Sinti and Roma as they did to the Jews. In all countries occupied by Germany, but particularly in Poland, in the western territories of the Soviet Union, in Croatia and Serbia, the majority of Sinti and Roma were killed en masse. In 1939, some of the Sinti in Germany and Austria were partly sent to Dachau concentration camp or the women’s camp at Ravensbrück. From March 1943 onwards, Sinti and Roma from Germany, in Central Europe, as well as from Poland to some extent, along with a small number from Western and southern Europe, were concentrated in the “Zigeunerlager” [Gypsy camp] in the mass-extermination camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau,”
The Flossenbürg trial started on June 12th, 1946. Pinter was one of the prosecutors. Although Flossenbürg camp had only been one of the smaller concentration camps, the trial dragged on until January 22th, 1947 – more than seven months. Thus, it became the longest-lasting trial of all concentration camp trials before American Military Courts. The long duration is not necessarily due to the number of 52 accused, for e.g. the Mauthausen trial with 61 accused had lasted only six weeks. Possibly the long duration of the Flossenbürg trial was caused by other reasons.[24]
Thus, the undocumented and imaginary Aktion 1005 provides no evidence of a German program of genocide against Soviet Jews, nor of destroying evidence thereof.
As shown by the Bletchley Park documents, the commandant of Auschwitz had to file a report every single day. With the exception of Sunday, these messages consisted of daily reports on population [Bestand], arrivals [Zugänge], and departures [Abgänge] from the concentration camps. For over thirteen months, from January 1942 to January 1943, the British Intelligence Service followed up and decoded these reports from Auschwitz Concentration Camp to the SS Head Business Administration Office [SS-Wirtschafts-Verwaltungshauptamt] in Oranienburg.
Dwork and van Pelt are not the only authors speaking of a “chute.” Franciszek Piper of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum also mentions such an item, not only for the planning stage but as an actual part of Crematorium III, which had a layout similar to Crematorium II, but not absolutely identical to it. In the book Anatomy of the Auschwitz Death Camp he writes (p. 168): “Crematorium III had a second entrance … In addition to the stairway it housed a special concrete chute (Rutsche) through which corpses … were lowered straight down to the elevator shaft,” but he does not explain how this chute functioned; for corpses, some kind of metal half-pipe might have been suitable, but a concrete one much less so. In the face of Piper’s statement about the chute in Crematorium III, the argument brought forth by Dwork and van Pelt becomes rather weak
7. Reckoning with the past?: Rwanda’s revised Genocide Ideology Law and international human rights law on freedom of expression
Browning testified at the David Irving–Penguin Books/Deborah Lipstadt libel trial in London in 2000, perhaps the most famous Holocaust court case since the Eichmann Trial in 1961. Considering Professor Browning’s current stature among academic historians and his importance to the defense of Lipstadt’s Holocaust beliefs, one should consider very carefully whatever he writes about Adolf Eichmann.
I again call the reader’s attention to Matia’s precise wording about the alleged method of murder at Sobibor. He claims the guards “drove them [the Jews] into gas chambers where they were murdered by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide.” Notice that Matia did not mention the specifics of the murder weapon, because he does not know what the alleged murder weapon really was. Did the Germans use a diesel engine or a benzene engine to generate the carbon monoxide?
Between 1947 and 1957 a little monthly journal was published in Buenos Aires under the title Der Weg - El Sendero (The Way). Language and readers were German, and the journal is of some historical interest since it was able to publish things in Argentina that certainly would have caused problems in post-war Germany. In July 1954 Der Weg had published an article by a certain Guido Heimann which dealt critically with the 6-million number and the Jewish death toll in what since became known as “the Holocaust.”[1] In response to Heimann's article an American by the name of Dr. Warwick Hester wrote a letter to the editor[2] in which he agreed with Heimann. The editor Eberhard Fritsch printed the letter (whose length was more that of an article) under the title "On the Roads of Truth" (Auf den Straßen der Wahrheit). The title refers to the letter writer Warwick Hester, who had in past years made many journeys in order to interview former German soldiers and SS men who lived now in exile and had testified on alleged German atrocities. Both Heimann and Warwick Hester appear in today’s context as early revisionists, and both articles were recently reproduced in the French language.[3]
“[p. 2/6] i/Nov. [in Nov.] 1939 I became leader of the protective custody camp in that place until my transfer to Auschwitz i.[n] May 1940.
The use of false witnesses has been acknowledged by Johann Neuhäusler, who was an ecclesiastical resistance fighter interned in two German concentration camps from 1941 to 1945. Neuhäusler wrote that in some of the American-run trials “many of the witnesses, perhaps 90%, were paid professional witnesses with criminal records ranging from robbery to homosexuality.”[24]
The fighting of the war was hardly over when a stream of Eastern Jews poured into Germany and Austria. Some of them came directly from the Soviet territories; many of them had been in Siberia. In 1946 and 1947 this migration reached its peak. Every day more than 1000 Jewish people crossed the zone borders; on some days up to 10,000 were counted. They stayed for some time, did their business and then moved on, amply aided from every direction. At times, as many as one million Eastern Jews were in West Germany and Austria. The total number of Eastern Jews smuggled through German-Austrian territory alone is given by Jewish sources as 1.5 million, by American as 2 million. Among them were a high percentage of children aged 1 to 5 years. Officially, these people who left the Soviet realm went under the term 'Displaced Persons', but the rumor dubbed them the 'gassed'. They were of course no such thing and were completely ignorant. Behind them lay long hard years on the road works of the East. They knew nothing of concentration camps with gas chambers and incinerators; they were healthy and vital, and focused their attention on stock-market prices and the Promised Land. A hardy, child-heavy portion of them set out for Israel.
Most amusingly, in his entire lengthy rebuttal, Ristic never once mentions the “bombshell” about the bone-dissolving machines—not once. This is a tacit admission that the point holds, that no evidence was sought or found, and that the whole basis for Jasenovac as a top-tier death camp rests on little more than rumor and innuendo, if not outright falsehood.
The tribunal was not convinced that military units fighting for the Allies had worn German uniforms. Rumors were not acceptable as evidence in this particular court of law. The next day would bring the trial to a conclusion since the tribunal had other prisoners to try. Skorzeny had no further defense, and he didn’t sleep that night because he was worried about the trial’s outcome.[38]
In his first draft (Shn-1) Semyonov had broached the subject of the capacity of the gas chamber, but apparently the experts preferred not to discuss technical questions, so all ESC drafts content themselves with the stereotypical claim that large numbers of prisoners had been murdered with deadly gasses (умерщвление газами) and that a gas chamber (газовая камера) had been in operation at Sachsenhausen. The question of whether the small room called “gas chamber“ on the Soviet blueprint of the crematorium really was a homicidal gas chamber will be discussed by this author in a future study.
Revealingly, the Telegraph completely sidestepped the issue of the German government’s irrational persecution of an incorruptible researcher whose only “crime” had been to apply the same standards of evidence to the “Holocaust” as are applied to any other alleged crime of this magnitude. Instead, the newspaper groaned over the fact that Rudolf had dared to question the allegation that millions of Jews had died in the gas chambers of Auschwitz.
Rapid advances on the eastern front would change things, but the Madagascar plan remained viable well into 1942. Goebbels mentions it in his diary as late as March 7 of that year, as a true final destination ('final solution'?) of the Jews who were evacuated, provisionally, to the Soviet East. That he would write this, in March 1942, is striking: at that point the mass killing was allegedly well underway.[12]
However, after the war, it was widely recognized that the Abwehr and Canaris had seriously sabotaged Germany’s war effort. For example, Gen. Alfred Jodl, in his final address to the International Military Tribunal, said that German military leaders had to conduct the war “with an intelligence service which in part was working for the enemy.”[39]
I arrived back at the bus just as the crowd was loading up—perfect timing. After an hour ride we returned to Krakow around 2:00 pm. But rather than sitting it out for another hour circuit of the city as we returned my fellow riders, I opted to hop out at the first stop and walk home. A good move. I was back at my hotel for less than an hour when the skies unleashed a pounding rain. So luck was with me after all, that day—my day in Auschwitz.
The large number of Jewish survivors of Auschwitz-Birkenau and other German camps makes impossible a program of genocide against European Jewry. These Jewish survivors include many children who were obviously too young to be good workers and contribute to the German war effort. Dr. Arthur Robert Butz writes in regard to the large number of Jewish survivors of the so-called Holocaust:[27]
Senator Tim Kaine (Hillary Clinton's running mate) had made statements anticipating Lipstadt's article the day before it appeared, most likely not by coincidence. It seems that Kaine was supplied with talking points, since he anticipated Lipstadt's accusation of Holocaust Denial that was published the next day. The obvious purpose of using Kaine as an errand boy was to reduce the appearance that the criticism was coming entirely from Jews.
Humbleness and self-deprecation were part of Bradley’s public persona. He loved to stress his shortcomings and mistakes. I came to believe that these efforts masked a deep pride. And, in the end, as a revisionist Bradley had a great deal to be proud of. In an area where, as in so much of life, success is a team effort, ultimately everything came down to him. He took on the biggest and most-heavily defended bastions of the Holocaust industry and its most-sacrosanct oracles. Even the evident failure of his outreach projects was a measure of Bradley’s and revisionism’s success: the professors he was always seeking to bedevil had no answers for his arguments.
Paul Rassinier was a former communist and concentration camp survivor, arrested by the Gestapo in 1943 for his resistance activities, which included smuggling Jews into Switzerland. Rassinier spent the last two years of the war first in Buchenwald and thereafter transferred to the underground labor camp at Dora.
Beaty described the Holocaust as a “fantastic hoax” and United States support for Israel as a policy fiasco. The Iron Curtain over America received strong support from many in the military intelligence community. U.S. General George E. Stratemeyer, for example, said he owed Beaty a great debt, since from Beaty’s book he finally learned what really occurred back home while he was fighting overseas. Stratemeyer said that every loyal American should read The Iron Curtain over America.[17]
[10] Mattogno, Carlo, “Dr. Mengele’s ‘Medical Experiments’ on Twins in the Birkenau Gypsy Camp,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 5, No. 4, 2013.
Some of what she writes actually sheds light upon the legitimate motives of many Holocaust revisionists. Just as many Jews perceive Holocaust revisionism as a threat to Jewish well-being, so too does a growing number of Europeans (especially Germans), Euro-Americans, Christians, Palestinians, Muslims and Iranians see Holocaust falsehoods (such as Simon Wiesenthal’s “Five Million Murdered Gentiles” Myth) as a threat to the well-being of their people.[10]
Even for a place as swampy as Birkenau the logistical problems of the corresponding water supply would be insuperable – and no witness has ever mentioned such a fire-fighting scene. In the unlikely case that fuel oil was used for the cremations, water would not be suitable for extinguishing the fire, because the burning oil floats on top and may even spill out over the sides of those “trenches” – a horrifying scenario for all concerned. Readers may draw their own conclusions regarding the reliability of any such statements.
However, Hitler ordered Niemöller placed in “protective custody” in Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp, where Niemöller was kept most of the time in solitary confinement. Niemöller’s acquittal, re-arrest and incarceration in Sachsenhausen produced an international scandal. U.S. Protestants regarded Niemöller as a hero of the faith, while reporters and journalists described Niemöller as a heroic figure in the struggle against Nazism.15]
The view that Holocaust history has snowballed, gathering momentum and prominence, rather like a successful PR campaign (and largely for decidedly suspect reasons) was famously described by Norman G. Finkelstein in his provocative work, The Holocaust Industry. ‘Until fairly recently,’ he wrote, ‘the Nazi holocaust barely figured in American life. Between the end of World War Two and the late 1960s, only a handful of books and films touched on the subject.’[5 ]He went on to state that, ‘everything changed with the Arab-Israeli war. By virtually all accounts, it was only after this conflict that the Holocaust became a fixture in American Jewish life.’[6] A corresponding view was provided by Donald Bloxham, who wrote ‘…for decades the murder of the Jews impinged hardly at all on the post-war world.’[7]
“Afterwards, in the evening, in the Gypsy camp of Birkenau, the closure of the camp was ordered, the approximately 1,700 men, women and children housed in Barracks 20 and 22, who had not been registered upon reception at the Gypsy camp, were made to exit the barracks, taken to the gas chambers and killed there. These Gypsies were deported from the region of Białystok and were isolated in Barracks 20 and 22 on suspicion of having typhus. They were not registered at the camp, received no numbers, and only spent a few days in the camp.”[31]
Bernard Clarke was not the only Jew who tortured Germans to obtain confessions. Tuviah Friedman, for example, was a Polish Jew who survived the German concentration camps. Friedman by his own admission beat up to 20 German prisoners a day to obtain confessions and weed out SS officers. Friedman stated that “It gave me satisfaction. I wanted to see if they would cry or beg for mercy.”[15]
Starting from the assumption, caused by the Auschwitz Museum’s decade-long misrepresentation, that today’s state of the building is an accurate reconstruction of the situation during the war when homicidal gassing are said to have occurred, revisionists highlighted the fact that the extant doors (or the lack thereof) in the claimed gas chamber would never have allowed the claimed mass murder. For instance, Swedish eccentric revisionist Ditlieb Felderer wrote in 1980:[14]
In addition to the supposed fake shower heads, Venezia had previously mentioned only the door of the supposed gas chamber:
Thus there seem to be two main tendencies in accounts of what is now called the Holocaust. The tendency of war propaganda was to emphasize the special turpitude of the Germans, and to claim a wide range of victims. The tendency of Zionist propaganda, on the other hand, is to emphasize the special victimhood of the Jews, and to claim a wide range of victimizers (which has afforded wide opportunities for Jewish organizations to sue for damages, e.g. against the French national railway). Since the Holocaust miniseries, the Zionist version of what happpened during the war has become prevalent, to the degree that some Jewish leaders now overtly minimize non-Jewish victimhood.
To sum up, the following facts may be considered established: The messages deciphered at Bletchley Park undoubtedly constitute one of the most reliable sources on the course of events during the Second World War. They provide information on undertakings of the German army, navy, and air force. They provide an insight into the events occurring behind the Russian front and the conditions in the concentration camps. Since the reports from Auschwitz contain no information on mass killings, the question of whether the British Intelligence Service "knew about the Holocaust," can be answered with a single word: "No!"[27]
Holocaust historian Leon Poliakov claimed there were five gas chambers, fifty square meters each, and built to hold approximately 2,000 people. Each chamber was packed with 400 victims.[25] He may have taken this from the Central Commission for Investigation of German Crimes in Poland inquiry, where they allege that there were probably five chambers that could hold 500 victims each.[26]
In a crematorium oven, the cremated bones are gathered in an ash box separately from the residues of the fuel (at that time coke). Ideally the cremated bones are well carbonized, which means that the organic matter (grease, collagen) has been entirely burned and only whitish-light-grey calcium phosphate containing a small amount of calcium carbonate remains. In order to get them into the urn, the bigger bone fragments have to be crushed. In modern crematoria, this is done by means of an electric mill. The cremation of an adult person produces between 1.5 and 2 kg of cremated bones, depending on the size of the corpse.[8] It is therefore an error to presume that one can make a human body “completely disappear” by incineration.
I was very anxious to get inside and look around. Then another surprise. “Because we are running late,” said our guide (“late”?), “we will only have time to see the main guard tower and one of the barracks. Unfortunately we won’t be able to see the gas chambers.” What?! You must be kidding me, lady! No gas chambers?! Like hell!, I said to myself. “How much time do we have until the bus leaves?,” I asked our guide. “About 25 minutes.” “I’m going to the gas chambers.” “Ok,” she said as she headed off with the group. I didn’t care if I had to walk back to Krakow; I was going to see the Birkenau gas chambers.
This article discusses the credibility of several prominent Sonderkommandos mentioned frequently in the pro-Holocaust literature.
They attempt to project the appearance of being committed to the very values that they in truth adamantly oppose: reason, critical rules of evidence, and historical distinction.
[iii] Tiedemann, Herbert, “Babi Yar: Critical Questions and Comments,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 521.
It is safe to assume that, if Dr. Shermer had scored a victory over Holocaust revisionism, he and the Deborah Lipstadts of this world would be aggressively promoting the Weber-Sher­mer debate videotape.
One of the most startling facts, to the modern eye, regarding the treatment of these Genocide claims by the Nuremberg prosecutors, is that in their drawing up of the indictment and indeed in the playing out of the trial in general, they seemed to give them comparatively little coverage. The prosecution case instead seemed to revolve around the charge of Crimes against Peace. This is problematic to explain.
So no evacuation either for workers or the elderly. One wonders if genocide was still ‘in the air’.
The former head of the South Australian Office of Multicultural Affairs, Sev Ozdowski, was another who supported the Brandis proposals, submitting that “it is difficult to find evidence [that] freedom of speech needs to be curtailed because it grows racism in Australia or because of sensitivities associated with Australia as a multicultural society.” He felt that education was a much more effective way of tackling racism than legal sanctions. “There is no evidence that criminalization of so-called hate speech elsewhere in the world has markedly contributed to social peace and harmony….. The only exception to freedom of speech should be when it calls for action that could result in violence… and when it threatens national security and public safety.”[69] That last point is dubious, since would-be censors have been known in Australia and overseas to deliberately threaten violence against right-wing speakers in order to get a suborned police authority to close down proposed meetings on that very ground – of public safety – rather than moving against the real trouble-makers. Chris Merritt pointed out that a danger has arisen of lawyers being seen as the natural allies of authoritarians, the latter in Australia being able to be identified “by their desire to extend state power in ways that erode the liberties that set this country apart from many of its neighbors.” He stressed that the most important rights are “products of the common law, not the gift of governments or revered founding fathers.”[70]
From the German point of view commando raids were a violation of the rules of warfare. Therefore, Hitler had issued his so-called Commando Order (Kommandobefehl) of 18 Oct. 1942 which stipulated that all captured commandos, no matter if they were in uniform or not, were to be executed immediately after interrogation. From the British point of view the members of the commando should have been treated as prisoners of war, since they were captured in uniforms. The Wehrmacht apparently tried to circumvent this order, but the seven sailors were denied regular POW status, they were handed over to the Security Service (Sicherheitsdienst, SD) and were sent to Sachsenhausen concentration camp rather than to a regular POW camp (Sept. 1943).
The NA is averring that three Brendon Bracken letters were made using the same typewriter as a letter from John Wheeler-Bennett to Sir Robert Bruce Lockhart of May 1945 (w 4/27), this being part of the evidence that they are forgeries. I and my colleague Jonathan Adams carefully compared the latter to the Bracken letter of May 1945 (W 4/19). It was clearly a different typewriter in our view. We concurred with Irving’s judgement: certain characters such as the “W” could be seen as different. We thus reject this argument for forgery.
In his testimony from the Eichmann trial, Wiernik gave the ceiling height of the new gas chambers as 1.90 m.[13]
The Ministries case was filed November 15, 1947. The court proceedings ended in November 1948, but because of the voluminous evidence resulting from 21 German government officials being named as defendants, the court took five months to file its 833-page judgment. Sentences were not imposed until April 14, 1949, making it the last Nuremberg trial to conclude.[13]
This report aroused my concern that the intellectual freedom and respectability of Holocaust revisionists and their supporters within Australia was now being threatened as never before; and accordingly I endeavoured to research the relevant declaration. This article is the result. It begins by analysing the document itself, and then proceeds to consider its significance for Australian and world politics.
Speaking of dogma, it should be noted that Hitchens makes many claims in this book for which he provides no evidence. And, unlike many of his critics in this book, his writings contain few references to sources that a skeptic can double-check.
[7] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, p. 60 (footnote 14).
“The crematories were working constantly. Two or three trains came every day, and each train had from 2,500 to 3,000 people. In crematoriums I or II, it took about 24 hours to cremate 2,500 people, depending on the bodies.” (p. 61)
Like success itself, the wildly successful story of the Six Million has many authors,[1] whose ranks at this late remove still show no signs of slowing in their phenomenal growth. But pride of place in the composition and certification of the Greatest Crime in History may belong to the unfortunate SS Lieutenant Colonel from Baden-Baden whom the British nabbed in occupied Germany almost a year after the end of the war and charged with crimes committed during his tenure as commandant of the concentration camp at Auschwitz. Over the ensuing 401 days and nights, Obersturmbannführer Höss admitted to practically all the charges and obligingly if not credibly supplied virtually the entire outline of the Holocaust Story that reigns (literally, by law) supreme everywhere in the Western world to this day. He not only authoritatively supplied the horrifying, fascinating details, he did it mostly in 1946, that is, very early in the game, and he willingly signed a total of 85 affidavits and depositions in German, English and Polish—so many in fact that voluminous quotations from these qualify him to be named as co-author of the book here reviewed. His own co-author, maestro massimo of the Holocaust Carlo Mattogno, was born six years after Höss’s death by hanging at the hands of Polish executioners in that very same Auschwitz—by then reverted to its Polish name of Oswiecim—of which he had had charge for years during World War II.
Later developments of justice produced labels for these approaches to legal defense, "turning state’s evidence," coupled with "plea bargaining."
In September 1939, Britain went to war with Germany, pursuant to the guarantee which Chamberlain had been panicked into extending to Poland in March. Lloyd George had termed the guarantee "hare-brained," while Churchill had supported it. Nonetheless, in his history of the war Churchill wrote: "Here was decision at last, taken at the worst possible moment and on the least satisfactory ground which must surely lead to the slaughter of tens of millions of people."[1] With the war on, Winston was recalled to his old job as First Lord of the Admiralty. Then, in the first month of the war, an astonishing thing happened: the president of the United States initiated a personal correspondence not with the Prime Minister, but with the head of the British Admiralty, by-passing all the ordinary diplomatic channels.[2]
In the immediate aftermath of the war, no doubt was expressed or entertained that the crematorium contained a homicidal chamber. An official US Army report, issued within days of takeover of the camp, was unequivocal. In Dachau the Germans conducted a “systematic policy of extermination” (Perry 2000: 14-15)—though today we know that no such thing ever occurred or was even planned. There were “a total of five gas chambers” (p. 44), the largest disguised as a shower. In it, 15 fake shower heads were installed, “from which gas was then released” (p. 52).
The late historian, political analyst and international affairs authority, William Henry Chamberlin, summed up the situation in regard to the former East Germany. In 1963, he observed: “The so-called DDR (initials for German Democratic Republic) is neither German nor democratic nor a republic. It is a totalitarian police regime, completely subservient to the will of a foreign power, the Soviet Union.”[32]
So, because revisionists insist on an intellectual, rational, evidence-based, reasoned investigation of the reliability of witness testimony, they turn irrationalism into their god – because that’s what apotheosis means! She really got it all upside down. If she knows it, she is a liar. If she doesn’t, she has no clue what scholarship is all about.
As our modern-day Don Quixote and his team pursue their research, who knows what further wondrous phenomena might come to light. Perhaps even evidence of a “Holocaust by Hypnosis”? It is a pity that the team doesn’t seem to have a Sancho Panza.
“The first Sonderkommando was formed at the end of 1941. It dug pits and carried out mass burials of bodies which, for some reason, hadn’t been taken to the crematorium. The burials were done in Birkenau. The second Sonderkommando was formed in March 1942. The men of the Sonderkommandos lived in isolation in the main camp, so no one could tell what they were doing in the forest, which grew right up to the camp grounds on its northwestern side. This secrecy led to the most incredible rumours – many of them contradictory. Even we, who’d grown used to atrocities, couldn’t believe these horror stories. Some rumours reached my ears when I was in the hospital, and there we had even less idea what was going on in Birkenau.”
Let’s now turn to Dr. Lipstadt’s claims regarding the Holocaust deniers’ motives and methods. About the revisionists’ motives, she writes in her introduction on page sixteen, quote:
Fig. 8: Source: CODOH Forum (Committee for Open Debate of the Holocaust) http://forum.codoh.com
The essay by Curtis carries a statement under its title as follows: “Everyone conscious of the importance of the free exchange of views is hesitant about banning people's views.” That is a reasonable assertion, but the next sentence is not. It reads: “But Holocaust denial is different.” No it’s not; it’s “people's views” just as much as anything else. We have here an old debating trick: the attempt to pretend that there is a difference or distinction when there isn’t one at all.
Sobibor historian Jules Schelvis, who wrote the definitive mainstream history of the camp, also engaged in a serious form of “Holocaust denial.” He too denied that 250,000 people were slaughtered there! He minimized the number of alleged Sobibor deaths down to 167,000.[85 ]
[12] This results from a letter dated August 26, 1944, by Heinrich Josten, head of the Auschwitz air-raid protection department, to the camp commandant, Rossiiskii Gosudarstvennii Vojennii Archiv (Russian State War Archive), Moscow, 502-1-401, p. 34. Subsequently abbreviated as RGVA.
So, in a new book about the Holocaust, two basic questions come to mind: Why did the author write it and what does he have to say about the extermination of the Jews? Let’s examine these questions.
These six camps thus account for a nominal total of 3 million Jewish deaths, as we have assumed at the start. They are fully half of the Holocaust.
Over the past twenty-five years, throughout much of the western world, historical revisionism has sustained ever-harsher assaults on freedom of conscience and expression aimed directly at it. Explicitly anti-Holocaust-denial criminal statutes impose the consequences: question the Holocaust, go to jail. Unrepentant revisionists convicted under these oppressive laws can expect to serve lengthy sentences and appeals in most cases are routinely denied.
If, for some other strange reason, the Germans preferred to use ‘chambers,’ they had options there as well. Consider this obvious fact: Once you have gone to the trouble of rounding up Jews and packing them tightly into small, air-tight rooms, you don’t need to gas them. If the room is even close to “air-tight,” you just wait 30 minutes or an hour, and everyone is dead. No toxic chemicals, no lengthy aeration, no messy cleanup—just open up the doors and haul out the asphyxiated bodies.
As emerges from several instances in her book, Lipstadt equates Holocaust revisionists with “Nazis” and “fascists”:
This may be Inconvenient History’s first Profile of a living subject. David Irving (born 1938, England) is not only living, but—very happily for the rest of us—working at a pace that would tire anyone half his age, at this moment on a biography of Heinrich Himmler. His only career after a stint as a millworker in Germany’s renascent steel industry after World War Two has been researching, writing, and publishing history, all of it placed within Europe in the Twentieth Century. His distinguished and strife-torn career, then, is already about twice as long as any “average” career, and his productivity exceeds all norms by a large multiple. While his aggressive interpretations of the evidence he examines produce books that read like novels (with footnotes), not one of his titles, neither in English nor in his equally fluent German, is fiction.
The legend of this discovery justifies a short digression. Arthur Nebe was involved in the abortive coup of 20 July 1944. After the failed attempt on Hitler’s life, he managed to go underground. In early 1945, he was denounced and arrested; on 2 March, 1945 he was sentenced to death by the Volksgerichtshof and executed shortly afterwards. It is all but certain that the Gestapo thoroughly searched his house after the events of 20 July 1944, and they would surely have found and confiscated the film, had Nebe indeed kept it at home. The alleged search of his “apartment” after the war is a highly fishy story, as he owned a house and did not live in an apartment. Theoretically the search could have been effected at the apartment of his widow, but there is no evidence to back up this theory. To cut a long story short, the legend of the “discovery of the Mogilev photographs” is every bit as phoney as the picture itself.
Despite that, nobody sent her to the furnace. Instead, she was later sent to Auschwitz where she spent another two months in bed. She was eventually transferred to Bergen-Belsen.
Here is what Blatt told the German magazine, Spiegel: “"They abused us. They shot new arrivals who were old and sick and could not go on. And there were some who pushed naked people into the gas chambers with bayonets…Sobibor was a factory. Only a few hours passed between arrival and the burning of a body."[89]
In both these plans, the wall of the left (short) side of the alleged gas chamber, that is, the wall with the entrance door, is REALLY THIN, it probably measures no more than 15 centimetres. As an architect, I understand well that such a partition could only have served as a dividing wall. It could have never withstand the stresses produced by the opening and closing of a heavy steel door. Let alone the blows and the pressure towards the outside exerted by the panicked prisoners.
Photo 1: Crematorium exterior (gas chamber area at left).
The alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau could not have been used to exterminate hundreds of thousands of people as described in pro-Holocaust literature for numerous reasons:[21]
Since 1940 the Sachsenhausen concentration camp had been equipped with a small crematorium consisting of two one-muffle ovens the combined capacity of which probably did not exceed 14 cremations per day.
Accentuating their role in the ruination of Leuchter’s career, the Klarsfeld Foundation and the Holocaust Survivors and Friends in Pursuit of Justice organization subsequently published a book entitled, Truth Prevails: Demolishing Holocaust Denial: The End of the Leuchter Report.[13]
That Christian Gerlach four years earlier dismissed the ESC figure as “far too high” does not bother Kohl in the least – although it would appear that Kohl is unaware of Gerlach's Kalkulierte Morde; at least he does not list it among his sources. In any case it hardly needs to be pointed out that Kohl's reasoning here is deeply flawed: Confronted with the claim that X number of people have been murdered, the logical response from any sane, rational person would be to ask for hard evidence supporting that this number of people has indeed been killed. One would not uncritically accept an unsubstantiated claim just because no evidence contradicting it was available.
Judge Moshe Landau wanted to know why there was nothing in the minutes about the “methods of killing,” and the “specific killing methods, such as gas (p. 136).” That is to say, Eichmann put nothing in the minutes about the “Nazi gas chambers.” German officials allegedly did not want “references to them to be widely circulated (pp. 136-137).” Lipstadt writes: “No, Eichmann assured him [Judge Landau], there was no specific talk of killing methods (p. 137).”
One day I ran across an article about mad poets in the New York Review of Books. Not poets who are annoyed. Crazy ones. I have some interest in poetry, and an intermittent interest in madness. Professor Charles Rosen of the University of Chicago wrote the article. Early this year I submitted a second full-page advertisement to a student newspaper on that campus, The Chicago Maroon. You can see the coincidences gathering themselves together here. This ad was titled "The Holocaust Controversy: The Case for Open Debate." In the end it was suppressed so Chicago students didn't get to read it, but the word had gotten out on campus about the text of the ad and there was a big stink about it.
The problem for the Lipstadts is that light is there for all of us without fear or favor. It is no respecter of persons. Just as the sun shines on the good and the bad alike, light refuses to choose sides. Historians who ask it to, betray their professional ideals and the ideal of light itself. It's Lipstadt's need for guarantees from light that causes her to argue against this great ideal of Western culture. We all have to be willing to accept what light illuminates. I admit on principle I might be wrong about the gas chambers, to say nothing about a lot of other stuff. Nevertheless, here I am, looking for ways to encourage intellectuals to encourage  intellectual freedom with regard to the Holocaust controversy. I don't care anymore who's right or wrong about the gas chamber stories. I'm fishing a bigger lake.
Column 1: The train’s date of arrival at Auschwitz; also the respective entry in Czech’s Chronicle.
Either one gives up the priority of the archives, and in this case one disqualifies history as a science, immediately reclassifying it as fiction; or one retains the priority of the archive, and in this case one must concede that the lack of traces brings with it the incapability of directly proving the existence of homicidal gas chambers.
In 1996, Jacques Baynac, a staunchly anti-revisionist French historian, ended up admitting that, all things considered, there was no proof of the existence of the Nazi gas chambers. He specifically remarked on “the absence of documents, traces or other material evidence.”
[“It is with a heavy heart and somber mind that we remember and honor the victims, survivors, heroes of the Holocaust. It is impossible to fully fathom the depravity and horror inflicted on innocent people by Nazi terror.
Pretty much everybody she discusses, and every sincere dissent ever expressed about the mainstream Holocaust narrative, gets hit with the accusation of being anti-Semitic. There is therefore no way of dodging it, short of total acquiescence.
The late Joseph Bellinger had intended the current article to be a chapter in a book that remained unpublished at the time of his death, The Prohibition of “Holocaust Denial.” — Ed.
The rendering of the Auschwitz Museum represents one of the alleged devices which allowed pouring of the Zyklon B inside the room from above. The most-acclaimed witness, Kula, painstakingly described the device, and Pressac drew it with some precision.[77] It was constituted of a kind of small metal casing of tight iron mesh, of unknown height, which ran inside a larger column made of a net of iron mesh with a square section of 70 x 70 cm; but its course stopped in the upper part of the larger column without ever reaching the floor. Zyklon B was poured from above inside the metal casing, and it remained and evaporated in the upper part of the room, we can assume between 1.90-2.00 and 2.40 meters (the ceiling height).
The amounts of firewood required daily would have staggering, especially considering the claim that the wood was taken from nearby woods and delivered by local farmers for immediate use, which is to say, the wood was fresh (or "green") not seasoned (dried) and thus had a low heating value. To incinerate 1 kilo of human cadaver one needs 3.5 kilo of seasoned wood. If one uses green wood instead, the required amount is almost doubled: the heating value of 1 kilo of dry red pine corresponds to 1.9 kilo of green red pine. In the Koblenz trial verdict Blagovshchina is described as a pine copse, and in the absence of other evidence it seems fair to assume that the surrounding wooded areas were dominated by the same type of tree. Estimating the average weight of the victims to have been 60 kilo, the firewood required to incinerate 1 corpse would have amounted to some 400 kilo. The total daily requirement would have been either approximately (400 × 3000 =) 1,200 tons or (400 × 660 =) 264 metric tons.[27]
Holocaust museums as they are designed and focused today tell a tale of a unique victim, a unique perpetrator, and a unique atrocity. But in that uniqueness the universal human message and moral is lost. Without mention of the victims of other mass expulsions and genocides, in the very same places and involving members of the same peoples at nearly the same times, from the American Indian to the Armenians to the Cambodians, Rwandans, and yes, even the Germans, the meaning is monopolized, hoarded, and likely lost.
Italian citizen of Hungarian descent, born in Turin on 22 April 1906, interned at Sachsenhausen since 1 August 1944. The reasons for his arrest and incarceration are unclear. Gyarmati worked as a doctor in the camp hospital. Like the other physicians, he was left behind with the sick inmates when the camp was evacuated. His case sheds light on the origin of the Prisoner’s Report.
McAdams told the Washington Post: “…There was no credible evidence against Artukovic on these crimes. The OSI wanted him badly and they got him. None of the standards of justice used in the US were applied.”
“As has already been stated, the testimonies against Mengele must be treated with great caution. A number of incorrect statements can be explained on the grounds of mistaken identity, in which Mengele had gotten confused with other camp physicians or SS guards. Some witnesses in their statements were certainly motivated by self-importance and attention-seeking. Finally, even certain ‘exaggerations’ can be explained as innocent attempts to communicate and render the atrocity that was Auschwitz understandable – at least to a certain extent – to persons living later who hadn’t experienced it. Since Mengele was never tried, it has not been possible to put individual witnesses to the test. Even at the Mengele trial in Jerusalem in February 1985, rigorous cross-examination was waived for psychological reasons which were, after all, only too understandable – the need to recall to mind the horrors of Auschwitz was no doubt sufficiently agonising. Nevertheless, clarification of Mengele’s crimes at Auschwitz requires a critical and detailed examination of the testimonies.”[45]
10. Srebrenica and genocide denial in the former Yugoslavia: what has the ICTY done to address it?
A quick note on the death camps. Chelmno, Belzec and Sobibor are briefly discussed in Chapter 11 (2 or 3 pages each). Chapter 13 is about the death camps in Poland, but it mostly focuses on Treblinka and Majdanek. Auschwitz gets the largest share of the pie, with the events concerning it spreading from Chapter 11 to Chapter 17. But Rees offers nothing new at all. He simply repeats what can be found in all other books.
The prisoners would then be given clean, lice-free clothing, and enter the camp. It is easy to see how this life saving delousing process involving real fumigation chambers for clothing and real showers was misconstrued into wartime propaganda about showers of gas by prisoners spreading rumors as well as Soviet propaganda artists deliberately framing their enemies.
Dr Robert Faurisson, whose scholarly qualifications and record have been impressive by any criteria, was recognised as an ‘expert witness’ in both the 1985 and 1988 trials of Ernst Zündel in Toronto. He was a tenured professor at the University of Lyon where he taught Modern Literature and Text and Document Criticism. He applied his scholarly discipline to an examination of the documents at the Centre de Documentation Juive Contemporaine in Paris, the National Archives of the USA, the State Museum at Auschwitz, and the Bundesarchiv in Koblenz, West Germany. He also conducted on-site examinations of Auschwitz and other concentration camps.[15] Dr Faurisson has posed the same types of questions in regard to the gassing of Jews as those posed by Prof. Douglas in regard to the gassing of Iraqis. Among those questions are the different interpretations that can be applied to key texts in regard to the ‘Holocaust’, in a manner that seems analogous to Prof. Douglas’s contention that statements of opinion do not necessarily prove the realisation of those opinions as policy; in this instance, Churchill’s opinion of ‘primitives’ is analogous to the anti-Semitic opinions of some National Socialist leaders, which are marshalled to ‘prove’ that these opinions were translated into a policy of genocide.
He refused, that is, to deal with it metaphysically, as a unique object of evil, existing there in a small segment of history, in a nearly perfect vacuum, with at most merely ideological links to racist and Social Darwinist thought of the preceding century. Instead, without denying the importance of ideology, he attempted to set the Holocaust in the context of the history of Europe in the first decades of the 20th century. His aim was in no way to excuse the mass murder of the Jews, or to diminish the guilt of the Nazis for this crime dreadful beyond words. But he insisted that this mass murder must not lead us to forget others, particularly those that might stand in a causal relationship to it.
None of these records is a true steno record. Otherwise, Heim’s, Picker’s and Koeppen’s same-day entries would be identical, or close to identical, and they would present Hitler’s verbatim utterances. Yet, Koeppen discusses things that Heim/Picker do not and vice versa. There are omissions and variations of Hitler’s words on the part of both Koeppen and Heim (and Picker). And, of course, there are other serious problems associated with Heim and Picker, which we have already discussed. Be that as it may, as further evidence I offer a few more examples.
Needless to say, the “1.5 million victims of Majdanek” meme failed to withstand scrutiny. Because the camp was so well-preserved, it was amenable to thorough investigation. As it turns out, “the authorities” never found more than a tiny fraction of the purported bodies. As the years passed, the gas-chamber stories dwindled away and “official estimates” began to fall: first to 1.38 million in 1986, and then to 360,000 in 1990. Then further: 235,000 people, of whom just 110,000 were Jews (1992); 60,000 Jews (2000); “over 50,000” Jews (2003).[42 ] From the revisionist standpoint, Graf and Mattogno (2012) have calculated that the Jewish death toll was slightly less than 28,000.[43]
I agree that everyone should use evidence properly. But what is “the proper use of evidence”? She doesn’t say. Neither does she define what evidence is and how to use it properly, nor does she make any reference to anyone else who does. Doing so would be the proper, scholarly way. But then again, scholarship? Scientific method? What is that? Ever heard of them, Dr. Lipstadt?
The TESTA gassing technicians offer an interesting, if marginal, class of witness. A number of them had visited concentration camps. However most of the visits were early in the war, before the alleged homicidal gassings had begun, and before the SS had trained enough of its own personnel to carry out their own gassing operations. Thus, for example, we have the account of Hans Willy Max Rieck, who visited Auschwitz in early summer 1941 to carry out a gassing, as there was a typhus epidemic underway in the camp at the time. Naturally, he reported that there were no gas chambers in the camp, although he had heard that Berlin had approved the construction of gas chambers in Auschwitz (obviously delousing chambers were meant). He had not heard of homicidal gassings until the occupation.[195] His fellow gassing technician Johannes Mueller, who accompanied him on the visit to Auschwitz, confirmed his story.[196]
There were not 6 million victims because of Hitler, there were 50 million. And of what importance is it that there were 6 or 7 or 5 million persecuted Jews? All my life I have been intrigued by the people of Israel, and reading the Bible I note that when Joshua crossed the Jordan to enter the Holy Land, he killed everyone down to the last chicken. It was the Shoah before the Shoah.[2]
The “Holocaust by bullets” is an increasingly popular theme among promoters of the Holocaust narrative. The allegation is that the Einsatzgruppen, with support from the German Army, undertook a mission to murder every Jew they could find in the Soviet Union. This article discusses the absurdity of this allegation.
Mengele was wounded in combat and declared medically unfit for (further) combat.[9] After a four-month leave at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Anthropology in Berlin, Mengele entered service as a medical doctor at Auschwitz on May 30, 1943. It was from his service at Auschwitz that Mengele became known as the infamous “Angel of Death.”[10]
We therefore do not accept that blue wall paint was the reason for the blue discolorations of the plaster, mortar and bricks of Third Reich era Zyklon B delousing-chamber walls. Excluding insoluble iron cyanides from the analysis, as the Polish study did, means excluding the majority of detectable cyanide components, which is hardly a valid approach.
The revisionists have discovered the sinister black boxes of the “Holocaust,” then opened them and decrypted the contents for us. They have been able to unmask the apostles or disciples of a secular religion grounded in conceited pride, lies, hatred and greed. To all people, without distinction, the revisionists can bring relief: they teach us that, despite a capacity for every kind of horror, humanity has, after all, never committed the unspeakable slaughter for which, over several generations, some have presumed to blame it at every hour of the day or night, demanding ever more financial compensation, ever more privileges. Today we are facing a secular religion, that of the “Holocaust” or “Shoah,” which is bound to go down in history as the dishonor of men. This religion originated in the Western world and has developed there at a dazzling pace, but is already falling into decay. The rest of the world does not want it, sometimes even expressly rejecting it. The “Judeo-Christian” West would be well advised to take note of this and follow the example given by the rest of the world.
"Haim Falesski" is identifiable as Haim Faletsky, born in Calarasi, Romania, on 11 September 1890. He was on Convoy 20, which departed from Drancy with destination Auschwitz on 17 August 1942. It consisted of 1,000 deportees, whereof 878 were "gassed on arrival", i.e. transited.[168]
Der Begriff Holocaust bezieht sich allgemein auf die systematisch geplante und durchgeführte Vernichtung von sechs Millionen Juden durch Nazi-Deutschland während des Zweiten Weltkriegs. Etablierte Historiker sind sich einig, dass von diesen sechs Millionen Juden ungefähr drei Millionen in Gaskammern getötet wurden. Die überwiegende Mehrheit von ihnen, sagen sie, wurden in sechs Vernichtungszentren auf polnischem Gebiet getötet bzw. sie starben dort. Hier ist eine Aufgliederung dieser drei Millionen angeblichen Gaskammeropfer auf diese sechs Lager.
As the first in existence, Chelmno was supposedly the ‘experimental’ death camp, the one that would establish the process for the others to come. Allegedly, it was in the summer of 1941, following early successes against the Soviets, that the Germans began to devise their “final solution” for the Jews—mass murder, on the standard view, or evacuation to the East, according to revisionists. Presumably acting on (unwritten) orders from Hitler, Himmler surveyed his technical experts for the best way to kill masses of people. Based on their experiences to date, they knew that shooting and ghetto-confinement would not work. One of Himmler’s men, Ernst Grawitz, allegedly proposed using “a fast acting, highly volatile gas.”[47] As Mattogno demonstrates, they had many alternatives, including the highly toxic phosgene and diphosgene gasses. Even the dreaded Zyklon (hydrogen cyanide, or HCN) was considered only moderately toxic among those studied. The least toxic was carbon monoxide. And yet the Nazis inexplicably elected to use carbon monoxide in their prototype death camp.
Let us now move on to the “stationary gas chambers” in which Jewish detainees were allegedly killed by means of Zyklon-B and/or carbon monoxide. According to the report of the Polish-Soviet commission of August 1944, there were six such chambers:
“With their tactics of isolation and intimidation failing to produce a result, Hanns realised that they must develop an alternative approach. At twilight on 11 March 1946, a noisy old steam train was driven past the rear of the prison. Hanns burst into Hedwig’s cell and informed her that the train was about to take her son to Siberia and that she would never see Klaus again. Allowing the message to sink in for a few moments, Hanns then added that she could prevent her son’s deportation if she told him where her husband was living and under what alias. Hanns then left Hedwig sitting on her cot with a piece of paper and a pencil. When he returned ten minutes later, he saw that she had written a note with Rudolf’s location and his alias: the Kommandant of Auschwitz was living at Hans Peter Hansen’s farm in Gottrupel under the name ‘Franz Lang’.”
After specifically isolating revisionists as the primary reason for the proposed enactment of “Holocaust-denial” laws, Bermant nevertheless possessed enough good common sense to warn:
The two transports from Bialystok were the last to arrive and be murdered in Treblinka. At that time the camp had already ceased to be fully operational. Part of it had been destroyed during the uprising a few weeks earlier, and only a few Jewish prisoners were still there to carry out the work connected with the extermination process. Therefore, the annihilation of the transports from Bialystok took more time than before the uprising. Only ten freight cars loaded with Jews could enter the camp simultaneously, as opposed to twenty previously. These difficulties were why the other transports from Bialystok, except for the one with the children, were sent to Majdanek and Auschwitz.”[67]
How then did the Gestapo and broader Nazi official attitudes towards punishment compare to the democracies? Not only was corporal punishment being used by the legal systems of the democracies during the Nazi era but has continued. It might be kept in mind also that this includes times of peace where the punishments are inflicted often on adolescents for minor offenses; not on Communist thugs or wartime spies and saboteurs. In Britain corporal punishment was abolished in 1948 but, with permission of the Home Secretary, could be meted out as punishment for assaulting prison staff until that was abolished in 1967.29 In Australia individual states could administer corporal punishment, including the “cat,” which was still being used on adult offenders in South Australia up to the 1950s.30 In Canada corporal punishment on prisoners was abolished in 1972. In 1929 there were 78 floggings by order of the courts, and 72 strappings for breaches of prison discipline. In 1935 the figures were 40 and 50 respectively. In New Zealand judicial whipping for boys under 16 was last used in 1935, and was abolished in 1941.31 In Delaware, USA, a public mass whipping in 1932 was watched by thousands. The law was abolished in 1972. In Baltimore whippings in jail were carried out “privately” before an invited audience. In Maryland a flogging in 1940 was carried out in public with a cat-o’-nine-tails.32 In 1936 in Chicago three youths convicted of a $10 robbery “were given five lashes with a double five foot length of three-quarter inch rubber hose in the Chamber of the Boys’ Court.”33
In August 1954, Thompson issued a press release that he had dissolved the ACAWC and dissociated himself from those who had been implicated. He had done so primarily to divert attention from his “foreign friends” implicated in an organization that had soon become infiltrated and victimized. One of those who had targeted Thompson was the Armenian-born “John Roy Carlson,” notorious author of Under Cover, which had smeared America First isolationists as German agents and “nazis.”[76] In subsequent legal hearings Judge John P. Barnes described Carlson as “someone who would write anything for a dollar.” He had posed as “George Pagnanelli,” Italo-American, during the 1940s. Now he was posing as “Yusef Nadir,’ writing from Germany, wanting to know about Thompson’s contact with the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem. Carlson and the ADL described Thompson as the leader of an international Nazi organization. Thompson stated that although there are “nationalist” organizations throughout the world, any type of internationalism is inherently impossible. He was particularly encouraged by developments in Germany, although individuals such as his contacts war veterans Colonel Hans Rudel and Wolfgang Sarg of “Natinform Germany,” were being harassed. Thompson singled out the post-war Union Movement of Sir Oswald Mosley for particular praise. Thompson commented, “even behind the Iron Curtain… we see evidence of resurgent nationalism within a framework of practical socialism.”[77]
Cutting through the exaggerations, lies and propaganda of the Holocaust story has to be the starting ground for any contemporary revisionist. The territory is plagued with the minefield of charges of "Holocaust denial," "racism," "anti-Semitism," and "neo-Nazism." Despite the persecution and insults, revisionists understand that the myths of the Holocaust have smothered out a proper and accurate understanding of the Second World War.
But my time was running short. A quick dash over to Krema 3 for a last shot or two (Photo 17), and then back to the bus. The other two crematoria, Kremas 4 and 5, were across the camp, a good 600 meters away, in the wrong direction; they would have to wait for my next visit. So too would the two “bunkers,” or small converted farm houses, that were allegedly used to pilot the Birkenau gassing project in 1942. Almost nothing remains of them, yet it would be interesting to hunt down their locations—the sites of some 250,000 Jewish gassings, it is said. But now it’s time to go. Heading back along the tracks toward that most infamous of buildings, I couldn’t resist pausing for one more shot (Photo 18).
Watch the video on The Chemistry of Auschwitz
This challenge began when Fröhlich appeared as an expert defence witness during the trial of Swiss revisionist Jürgen Graf and his publisher Gerhard Förster in 1998. By that time he had for a few years been distributing revisionist texts to Austrian politicians, journalists and others. Based on his own expertise as a specialist in the use of poison gas for exterminating vermin, Fröhlich had concluded that the ‘official’ story about ‘homicidal gas chambers’ being used to kill Jews and others with hydrogen cyanide (‘Zyklon B’) in German ‘extermination camps’ was scientifically impossible.
In the face of the advancing Soviet army, Anne Frank was evacuated to Bergen-Belsen, where she died from typhus in March 1945. While Anne Frank’s fate was tragic, her story is not consistent with a German program of extermination against the Jews. Along with thousands of other Jews at Bergen-Belsen, Anne died from a typhus epidemic and not from a German plan to commit genocide against European Jewry.[3]
In doing so, one should not forget that the history of the Western World after World War Two rests, in its very essence, on our view of Auschwitz, and it does so in a multitude of ways, politically, morally, and economically. What is more, our perception of Auschwitz also shapes the future of our part of the world and while it is fairly safe to stick with traditional views when it comes to the West’s present political situation, these questions take on a different significance when we look at the problems that lie ahead.
From 1942 through 1943, Polish Jewry was subjected to one of the most brutal campaigns of mass murder in human history. Because of the secrecy surrounding those four extermination camps, and the fact that they were ploughed under and erased from existence in 1943, it’s difficult to be precise about certain details. And we do know that some Jews were sent to those camps as a throughway to other destinations (as recounted multiple times in Gerald Reitlinger’s 1953 masterwork The Final Solution). But, more than enough circumstantial evidence exists to show that for most Jews, the train ride to those camps was one-way, and final.
So the question is, can we expect an objective presentation? The answer is probably a clear No, but let’s make sure. Holocaust denial and revisionists are basically covered in Part I. The rest of the book is mostly legal discussions. Let’s get going.
If the freedom of speech means anything at all, it includes the right to be wrong and tendentious, and the right even to cause offense. And if we, as Jews, now live in comparative security, it is largely because we have the good fortune to live in societies where such freedom is taken for granted. The whole process of historiography is one of revision, not only because new facts and documents come to light, but also because even established facts can be reassessed and reinterpreted, for one generation rarely sees events through the perspective of another. To demand laws that the received wisdom surrounding the Holocaust should forever be insulated from the process goes against every dictate of reason. Such laws are wrong in principle and are ineffective and possibly harmful in practice.[11]
It is pointed out also that the aerial photographs taken by the Allied military on 31 May 1944, at the crucial time of presumed extermination, on the day of the arrival at Birkenau of about 15,000 deportees, and after 14 days of intense arrivals (184,000 deportees, averaging 13,000 per day) and with an extermination toll (according to Pressac’s hypothesis) of at least 110,000 homicidally gassed, which would have had to average 7,800 per day, every single day for 14 consecutive days; after all of that, the photographs do not show the slightest evidence of this alleged enormous extermination: No trace of smoke, no trace of pits, crematory or otherwise, burning or not, no sign of dirt extracted from pits, no trace of wood set aside for use in pits, no sign of vehicles or any other type of activity in the crucial zones of the courtyard of Crematory V nor in the earth of Bunker 2, nor in Crematories II and III. These photographs constitute irrefutable proof that the story of extermination of the Hungarian Jews is historically unfounded.[23]
The interests of justice demand that the law should be limited to clearly defined acts of violence or acts of specific incitement to commit crimes of violence. Clearly, Holocaust revisionism does not fit the criteria and thus the prosecution of Holocaust revisionists enters into the realm of interdicted thought crimes. No individual should be prosecuted on the basis of his or her personal beliefs or expressions of opinion. The highest obligation of the law is in fact to uphold and defend the right of individuals to speak their opinion freely, without fear of persecution.
The physical evidence refutes the possibility of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. In addition to the aforementioned Leuchter Report, articles, testimony, reports, books and videos from Walter Lüftl, Germar Rudolf, Friedrich Paul Berg, Dr. William B. Lindsey, Carlo Mattogno, John C. Ball, Wolfgang Fröhlich, Dr. Arthur Butz, Dr. Nicholas Kollerstrom, Richard Krege and David Cole have conclusively proven that there were no homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. The books The Real Case for Auschwitz by Carlo Mattogno[12] and The Chemistry of Auschwitz by Germar Rudolf[13] are probably the best books for anyone wanting to make a thorough study of this subject, although Amazon and mainstream booksellers refuse to handle them. They are available only through the Web site of Castle Hill Publishers, Powell’s Bookstore of Portland, Oregon and a few others.
Lipstadt is considered by many to be an important Holocaust scholar; she served as a consultant to the team planning the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (p. ix), and authored three books dealing with the Jewish experience during the Second World War. Since the early 1990s, this pro-Zionist academic who delights in her Jewish identity (p. 186) has been recognized as the most prominent opponent of “Holocaust denial,” a pejorative term meant to demonize Holocaust revisionism, the historical movement contending there was no Nazi plan to exterminate the Jews during the Second World War, the “Nazi gas chambers” never existed, and the claim of six million murdered Jews is a gross exaggeration. For a Holocaust revisionist critique of Deborah Lipstadt and her views, I refer the reader to my essay.[1]
“We must protect our nation, a million and a half of whose children were murdered by the Nazis in the gas chambers.”
Dr. William B. Lindsey, a retired American chemist who was employed for 33 years by the DuPont Corporation, actually anticipated Leuchter’s testimony in the first Zündel trial in 1985. Based upon his own investigation of the site at Auschwitz, Lindsey declared under oath:
But soon these good days end. A first indication is when the cell block leader is replaced for being too humane, replaced by someone savage, ably assisted by monstrous attendants. This turn of events again causes Elie and his fellow Jews think of their fate, but also of things one doesn’t usually expect of a people too proud to believe they are at fault for anything. A fellow Hasidic, Akiba Drumer, one of solemn voice, is given to say God is testing them to find out whether they can dominate their base instincts and “kill the Satan within us,” while others speak “of the sins of the Jewish people,” but also their future deliverance. This reminds one of the occasional admissions of Jews such as Bernard Lazarre, a French historian who, well before the holocaust, understood national uprisings and the expulsion of Jews in consequence of negative characteristics the Jews themselves possessed. And it also reminds of Edith Stein, the German philosopher and Carmelite, who spoke of the “fulfillment of the curse which my people have called down upon themselves!”[10] But now, during a period of common suffering, these Jewish prisoners come to a similar understanding.
“Zyklon B [Setkiewicz always writes “Cyklon”] was used for the first time at Auschwitz for the fumigation of the SS guard building between July 5 and 11, 1940.”
Apart from all this, Lipstadt’s warning that debating revisionists would improve their public reputation is not even true, because if the evidence for the Holocaust is as overwhelming and the claims of revisionists as untenable as Dr. Lipstadt claims, engaging them in a debate would be a golden opportunity to expose their alleged quackery and stupidity. Only if revisionism has intrinsic validity would it gain stature by a public hearing. Here is the real reason why Lipstadt won’t debate revisionists:[18]
"Mr. Rudolf, like many other Holocaust deniers, has created a variety of pseudonyms, referred to as nyms in common Internet parlance. Most deniers use such pseudonyms to conceal their identities in the various Usenet discussion groups."[14]
The authentic Häftlingsbewegung reports. Source: Sachsenhausen Memorial Site (permanent exhibition in Barracks 38)
Testimony to his rigor might be inferred (or, might be doubted) from the fact that this book proudly bears on its back cover the inscription, “Winner of the 2000 National Jewish Book Award, Holocaust Category, Jewish Book Council.” Close reading of its content, however, powerfully yields the conclusion that Bukey has portrayed the vast and complex waves of emotion and reaction that swept across the populace of Austria from 1938 to 1945 in as fair, yet informative, a manner as can be imagined in these times that are still so charged with emotion and outright connivance regarding what was said, thought, and done—and by whom, and to whom—in those times and places.
Jones sees Germany's gigantic movement of resistance against coronavirus restrictions (whose adherents are known as Querdenker) as another manifestation of this rejection of guilt. Insofar as guilt is used to secure submissiveness (which seems to be lacking among the Querdenker), that may be true, but what is less likely is Jones' explanation of how this rebellion was awakened. Jones thinks that quiet rejection of the Holocaust narrative is an important underlying cause of the massive German protests against these impositions. However much we Holocaust Revisionists would like to claim this much influence, it is probably not the case. I learned of two figures in the Querdenker movement who have attracted attention by publicly disputing the Holocaust: one is Attila Hildmann, a Turk raised by German adoptive parents who was a celebrity author of vegan cookbooks until he began violating the Federal Republic's speech-taboos, and the other is Nikolai Nerling, a former schoolteacher who calls himself Der Volkslehrer. Since Germans are pressured to refrain from saying everything that they might believe, so that prohibited ideas could be widespread in Germany without commensurate representation in public discourse, I asked Nikolai Nerling if he, having close familiarity with the Querdenker movement, thought that there was a relationship between opposition to coronavirus restrictions and skepticism about the victors' history of the Second World War (especially in regard to the Holocaust and the Rheinwiesenlager), and his answer was this:
Adding to this self-reinforcing cycle of horror and destruction was the fact that, like the war itself, the German racial enterprise was the most highly mechanized program of involuntary population movement ever undertaken. The long, doom-bound train of locked boxcars or cattle cars filled with hopeless deportees remains perhaps the central image of the Holocaust despite the extensive use of just such conveyances in exactly the same ways not only for the Gulag of Soviet Russia, but for the ethnic counter-cleansings mounted on a virtually equal scale against Germans immediately after the war.
1) “In January 1945 there were about 63000 in all camps. In AUSCHWITZ I imagine about 3,000,000 people were put to death, about 2,500,000 were put through the gas-chambers” (p. 6)
Perhaps the most pronounced example of such pressure tactics in America concerns the case of Fred Leuchter, whose personal life and professional career were shattered as a result of his fateful forensic examination of Auschwitz and Majdanek in February 1988.
Longerich assumes that Hitler never made a written order to murder European Jewry because of the lessons he learned from his written order to murder mentally-ill Germans in his euthanasia program. He claims that Hitler did not want to assume responsibility for the genocide of European Jewry by making an unambiguous written order.[10]
Judge Matia and the mainstream historians claim that Jews were murdered in gas chambers at Sobibor, and carbon monoxide was the death-gas. Yet, there are former prisoners who have claimed that chlorine was the death-gas.
Already during the Nuremberg postwar trials, the huge amount of Zyklon-B deliveries to the infamous Auschwitz Camp were seen as evidence for homicidal activities on a large scale in that camp. Revisionists, on the other hand, have mainstained that this insecticide was used only to combat vermin in the struggle against epidemics. In a 2011 article, Piotr Setkiewicz, currently the research director of the Auschwitz Museum, tried to dismiss this revisionist claim as a myth by attempting to prove that the amount of Zyklon B delivered cannot be explained merely by its use for fumigations. The following paper, which is an excerpt from an upcoming book, analyzes the Auschwitz Museum’s hypothesis and juxtaposes it with the documented facts. It shows not only that Setkiewicz grossly miscalculated the a mount of Zyklon B delivered, but also misrepresented the amount of Zyklon B the camp would have needed to suppress the typhus epidemic raging inside the Auschwitz camp for some two years.
There is a feeling now prevalent in the United States marked by growing hatred of Fascism, and above all of Chancellor Hitler and everything connected with National Socialism. Propaganda is mostly in the hands of the Jews who control almost 100% [of the] radio, film, daily and periodical press. Although this propaganda is extremely coarse and presents Germany as black as possible--above all religious persecution and concentration camps are exploited--this propaganda is nevertheless extremely effective since the public here is completely ignorant and knows nothing of the situation in Europe.
In winter/spring of 2000, British historian David Irving sued Jewish historian Deborah Lipstadt and her publisher, Penguin Books, in the High Court in London, claiming that he was libeled in her anti-revisionist tome, Denying the Holocaust: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory. Lipstadt and company’s defense attorneys assembled a team of world-renowned Holocaust experts as part of their campaign to discredit Irving and validate Lipstadt’s claims. The presiding Judge, Charles Gray, was presented with the most powerful evidence and arguments in favor of the traditional view of the Holocaust. Certain conclusions of Judge Gray falsify Farrell’s claim that physical evidence at the Nazi concentration camps proves the orthodox Holocaust story correct.
His treatment of Holocaust revisionists is brief, and telling. First, he erected and attacked the straw man of “Holocaust deniers,” so smearing Arthur Butz, the only individual he named in his treatment of the subject. Having erected the straw man, he then correctly stated that the numbers of people fitting the description, as well as their collective influence, is pitifully small. He eschewed actual invective against the cadre he so roundly dismissed, but he even more-assiduously avoided admitting any possibility that the revisionists (to revert to the name of a real, and much larger, if embattled, group) had either sound motives, valid approaches, or accurate information on anything whatsoever. But his analysis of the phenomenon is conducted in the course of disparaging the counter-denial movement mounted so volubly and profitably by, among others, Deborah Lipstadt. His ultimate conclusion: it’s unnecessary and unseemly. The whole discussion is sure to arouse mixed feelings among revisionists.
Either coincidentally or as a result of deliberate political calculation, the Belsen Trial symbolically took place at Lüneburg in September 1945, less than 6 months after the liberation of the camp. Kramer and 44 others were charged with war crimes. Conspicuously absent from the trial were Kramer's superiors—the only people who could have testified on his behalf and perhaps saved him from the gallows. Rudolf Höss and Oswald Pohl, Kramer's nominal superiors, would not be captured until 1946. SS General Richard Glücks, head of the concentration camp directorate, was alternately claimed to have committed suicide or was murdered at Flensburg Naval Hospital on May 10, 1945, and all traces of Dr. Lolling, chief medical overseer for the concentration camps, appear to have vanished into thin air.[76] Needless to add, each of these potential witnesses was wanted as war criminals themselves by the Allies, which explains their reluctance to step forward and testify on behalf of their subordinate.
Sometime in 1944 a member of the SS from AUSCHWITZ concentration camp came to visit DEGESCH at FRANKFURT-on-MAIN FRIEDBERG and asked if we would supply some ZYKLON B direct to AUSCHWITZ as a transport of 250,000 Hungarian Jews was expected and they required material for disinfection owing to the danger of typhus breaking out. This request was refused as an agreement had already been reached that all orders for the Wehrmacht, including the SS, with effect from the end of 1943 or the beginning of 1944, would be made through HSP BERLIN[184]
“Statement Made voluntarily at Minden Gaol by Rudolf Hoess, former Commandant of Auschwitz Concentration Camp, on the 20th of March 1946.
Thus, if one claims that many thousands of Jews died—not in gas chambers, but in other incidental and ancillary ways—is this ‘denial’? Every revisionist agrees that the Nazis wanted the Jews out, and that this was a deliberate and intentional, and even central policy of National Socialism. Many Jews undoubtedly died in the process of ethnically cleansing the Reich. And it is true that Hitler and the others were largely unbothered by this fact. But is this to deny the intentionality of the Holocaust?
Evans states that it would be impossible to remove 200,000 dead bodies in a short period of time at Dresden. He writes: “And how was it imaginable that 200,000 bodies could have been recovered from out of the ruins in less than a month? It would have required a veritable army of people to undertake such work, and hundreds of sorely needed vehicles to transport the bodies. The effort actually undertaken to recover bodies was considerable, but there was no evidence that it reached the levels required to remove this number.”[36]
dated 3 October 2007 have been examined at the Sorbonne by specialists in history, Second World War weaponry, ballistics experts, specialists in forensic medicine, and archaeologists.
for air-blower Type 450 of the crematorium of the main camp the capacity was:
On the first count, Evans does a fair job. He proposes four pillars of denial: (1) less than 6 million Jews killed; (2) gas chambers were not used to any large degree; (3) the National Socialists’ intention was deportation and not mass murder; and (4) the Holocaust story is “a myth invented by Allied propaganda,” and “the supposed evidence…was fabricated after the war” (pp. 118-119). We can agree with the first three, but the last is not defended by any revisionist of the past 20 years or so.[76]
It is of interest to note that, while Kruk readily reported rumors spread by Polish underground publications that the Jews from Warsaw, Białystok and Grodno were killed en masse at Treblinka and Bełżec (which is here confused with another place, the town of Bełz) – the latter camp being located not far from Lwów and Zamość – he never mentions the alleged mass killing of the Łódź Jews at Chełmno (Sobibór and Auschwitz are also unknown to him). The reason for this is obvious: ever since his encounter with the two young Łódź Jews on 4 July 1942, he understood that the rumors according to which “there are no Jews in Łódź” were “crazy and wild” because he knew from first-hand sources that “mass executions are unknown” and that the tens of thousands of Jews evacuated from the Łódź were merely “taken off to work”. This shows that Kruk, while susceptible to black propaganda about the fate of the Warsaw Jews – something understandable in the light of the fact that most of his relatives lived there – did not lend credence to mere rumor in cases when he had access to reliable first-hand sources contradicting those rumors.
Nowhere in his book does Kulischer speak of extermination camps or of a German policy of genocide of the Jews. The demographic evidence does not support such a conclusion.
Motions to introduce evidence that the reason for the lack of any notable public objection to common knowledge is that historians fear legal repercussions and for that reason no longer express publicly what they really think, are nonetheless barred on grounds of self-evidence.[26]
(1) Kola (2000-2001). Digging 3,805 core samples over nine hectares, Kola “hoped to pinpoint the location of the gas chambers” (p. 98). He claims to have found seven mass graves and five building structure remains (“Objects A-E”). All of the mass graves contained skeletal remains—that is, unburned bodies—which argues against the bury-exhume-burn thesis. Total volume of the six main graves was around 14,700 cubic meters, sufficient to hold more than 100,000 bodies. But as Graf, Kues, and Mattogno (2010: 123) point out, simply because they were large enough “does not mean that [that many] corpses were buried in them.” Furthermore, due to random and uncontrolled diggings at the site after the war, there is a “high probability” that the graves were originally “considerably smaller” than at present. In any case, data from the core samples did not result in any determination of numbers of victims.
The burning of bodies leaves behind a large amount of unburned bones and teeth, as the official historians of Sobibor are clearly aware.[68] Holocaust historian Arad declares that the bones of the hundreds of thousands of alleged murder victims at Chelmno were “destroyed with a special bone-crushing machine.”[69] Yet, on the next page, he quotes Sobibor survivor Leon Feldhendler, who declared: “The bones were crushed into ashes with hammers [at Sobibor]…”[70] This allegation is highly improbable, if not downright ridiculous.
In Germany and Austria, Holocaust “denial”[1] and “hate” laws are basically an amplification and extension of Lycurgan Allied occupation policies dating back to 1945, whereby published literature or public behavior deemed to be reminiscent of National Socialist propaganda was prohibited by law, commencing with a ban on all National Socialist symbols and gestures, or distribution of “Nazi propaganda.” Article 86 of the German Criminal Code prohibits dissemination of the propaganda of unconstitutional organizations:
Jews played a crucial role in organizing the IMT at Nuremberg. Nahum Goldmann, a former president of the World Jewish Congress (WJC), stated in his memoir that the Nuremberg Tribunal was the brain-child of WJC officials. Goldmann said that only after persistent efforts by WJC officials were Allied leaders persuaded to accept the idea of the Nuremberg Tribunal.[29] The WJC also played an important but less obvious role in the day-to-day proceedings in the trial.[30]
Sources: This work has been released into the public domain by its author, United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, courtesy of Belarusian State Archive of Documentary Film and Photography.
Do Catholics no longer have the right to doubt or question aspects of secular history? Does the Magisterium of the Church now decree the undoubted veracity of the figure of Six Million deceased Judaic persons, and the undoubted existence of a mass killing operation in Auschwitz-Birkenau, conducted by means of poison-gas chambers?
Is this saying that there were non-Jewish victims of the Holocaust? No, because “Nazi policy” need not be perfectly synonymous with “the Holocaust.” The words must have been carefully chosen. The first sentence defines the Holocaust as specifically Jewish. It seems that the USHMM's statement was designed to appear ambiguous without actually being ambiguous.
Another school of thought opines that the Holocaust is so unique that it supersedes and surpasses all other historical episodes of racial or religious persecution, and as such the Holocaust is deserving of special status and recognition. The advocates of censorship vigorously defend these and similar views, perceiving revisionist historians as a threat to public order, whose research and published statements constitute “incitement to hatred.”
Roosevelt made a major radio address in May, declaring an “unlimited national emergency.” It was filled with more war hyperbole, most notably regarding the Germans’ alleged striving toward “world domination.” Over and over came the words: “Nazi book of world conquest”; “Hitler’s plan of world domination”; “a Hitler-dominated world.” Suffice to say that no evidence of such a plan has ever come forth.[48] Deploying the most facile, us-or-them language, FDR struggled to persuade reluctant Americans that they should fight and die: “Today the whole world is divided between human slavery and human freedom—between pagan brutality and Christian ideal.” He even hinted at the essentials of his strategy, namely, to provoke an ‘incident’ that would allow him to declare war: “We are placing our armed forces in strategic military position. We will not hesitate to use our armed forces to repel attack.”
This is the sort of thing which often passes for “fact” in the 20th and 21st centuries. Fernand Gabrillagues was the author of a “war crimes report” regarding Japanese atrocities in French Indo-China. The “report” (referred to as a “deposition”), was introduced into evidence at the Tokyo Trial as “proof” of the “matter stated” – signed by the “expert witness”, Captain Fernand Gabrillagues, after which Gabrillagues appeared to testify and was cross-examined on his “report”.
This article discusses some of the weaknesses of Longerich’s research regarding the so-called Holocaust.
This alleged occurrence is based exclusively upon a single testimony. Since no document exists to support the presumed gassing of these 1,700 Gypsies, or even their arrival at Auschwitz, Danuta Czech’s report has no historical basis.
Traditional Holocaust historians state that Treblinka was a pure extermination camp in which approximately 870,000 Jews were murdered. The number of Jewish survivors of Treblinka is generally thought to have been between 40 and 70, and probably closer to the lower figure.[1] This article will examine the credibility of several Jewish survivors of Treblinka.
It took the decision of a German court of law, however, to make me look into that issue more thoroughly. It happened in 1995, when I was sentenced to 14 months’ imprisonment for my forensic research activities.4 In the verdict, the court called me an anti-Semite, although I was utterly unaware of what that meant, apart from the obvious. So I started to do some research into the history of and reasons for anti-Jewish sentiments. That hasn’t made me an expert on this, but I know enough to be able to alert the reader to two pertinent studies by an Israeli scholar and Holocaust veteran which I can recommend, if the reader is interested in this issue.5
‘If the Holocaust took place in Europe, one also has to find the answer to it in Europe. On the other hand, if the Holocaust didn’t take place, why then did this regime of occupation (Israel)... come about? Why do the European countries commit themselves to defending this regime? Permit me to make one more point. We are of the opinion that if a historical occurrence conforms to the truth, this truth will be revealed all the more clearly if there is more research into it and more discussion about it….We don’t want to confirm or deny the Holocaust. We oppose every type of crime against any people. But we want to know whether this crime actually took place or not. If it did, then those who bear the responsibility for it have to be punished, and not the Palestinians. Why isn’t research into a deed that occurred 60 years ago permitted? After all, other historical occurrences, some of which lie several thousand years in the past, are open to research…’[20]
Finally, there are many ways of rigging one’s data and evidence in order to force them to fit one’s theory. All of them are hallmarks of an anti-scientific attitude. Here are those relevant to our topic:
(2) Bem (2004). In the second phase, Bem and colleagues hoped to find both the gas chambers and the ‘tube’ or path—also called the Schlauch or Himmelfahrtstrasse—that led to the chambers. Persisting in the thesis that Object E was the gas chamber building, they found a small rectangular space “that was tentatively interpreted as the room for the combustion engine [not “diesel”?] producing the exhaust fumes that were pumped into the gas chambers” (p. 105). Regarding the Tube, their investigation “had not produced the expected results,” meaning, they found nothing.
The roots of Barnes’s views about the Holocaust and his attitudes toward Israel go beyond his deep-seated Germanophilia and revisionist approach to history: They can be found in his antisemitism. (p. 80)
[25] Christophersen, Thies, “Reflections on Auschwitz and West German Justice,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 6, No. 1, Spring 1985, p. 118.
“Normal and accepted standards of scholarship, including the proper use of evidence, are discarded” by revisionists. (p. 32)
When Udo Walendy reproduced the Dziennik Polski article in 1990 he would have done better to either provide his readers with a proper facsimile or with an annotation clarifying the editing done to the reproduction – simply in order to not provide his opponents with ammunition. However, Walendy did provide the most basic and important element of a scientific argument, namely a source (i.e. the name of the newspaper and the publication date). Therefore Walendy’s critics could easily have verified the quote. Instead the opposite happened, as anti-revisionist and “Holocaust historian” Nick Terry a priori declared Walendy a forger without bothering to look up the original newspaper article. In fact, in the above cited posting from 19 June 2009 Terry writes:
“Did you see, when you got there two weeks after the British army took over, any evidence of gas chambers, the way propaganda has said that the Germans had in these camps? Or was there any claim made to that effect?”
The Israelitisches Wochenblatt für die Schweiz (Israelite Weekly for Switzerland) published many reports on the progress of the “Final solution” during the war years. In its issue from 16 October 1942 the weekly reported (p. 10f.):
As in the case of Russia, the Holocaust ideology was made into a cornerstone of Polish nationalism. Indeed, the Poles wanted to create a “national myth,” so this “required” that a large number of both Poles and Jews lost their lives at Auschwitz. With this political end in mind, Polish propagandists conspired to intentionally exaggerate the Auschwitz death figures.[71]
Drawing by David Olère from 1945. Source: David Olère. A Painter in the Sonderkommando at Auschwitz. The Beate Klarsfeld Foundation, New York, 1989, p. 57.
b. Opportunistic: Item a) above does not prohibit me from submitting motions to introduce evidence. However, since they would all be rejected, it would all be an effort in futility. We should all spare ourselves this waste of time and energy.
On the other hand, Himmler’s “sanction” implies a recognition and acceptance on his part of a state of fact, therefore he did not issue any general Jewish extermination order to Höss; vice-versa, if we accept Höss’s account, according to which Himmler issued the extermination order in June 1941, Birkenau camp would necessarily have been planned and built in execution of this order and we would fall back into the interpretation of the Auschwitz Museum discussed at the beginning. Schulte has been criticized for precisely this, by Michael Thad Allen, who radicalizes the thesis of the Auschwitz Museum[99]. To the contrary, Schulte explicitly declares that
Clearly there is much more to be said here. For those interested readers, sources such as Dalton (2014b, 2015) or Rudolf (2011) are recommended. Suffice it to say that the Holocaust, as commonly portrayed, is an unsubstantiated, unwarranted, and unjustified exaggeration of epic proportions. Nearly every aspect of the story crumbles as soon as it is put to the test. The alleged horror of the Holocaust becomes, in the end, a story of the dispossession and expulsion of one particular minority community that held disproportionate power in a nation that did not want them, and that bore disproportionate guilt for that nation’s misfortunes. That they themselves should have suffered as a result is unsurprising.
The contention that Jews from Luxembourg and Holland were detained in the Trostenets camp goes completely against orthodox historiography, which has it that no Jews from these countries ever reached farther east than Poland. Adler moreover maintains that the five transports departing from Theresienstadt in October 1942 were sent to Trostenets instead of Treblinka.[65] The source for this contention appears to be the testimony of a certain Isak Grünberg, who was deported from Vienna to Trostenets on 5 (or 7) October 1942, who speaks of transports from Auschwitz, and hints at transports from Theresienstadt via Treblinka.[66] Grünberg estimated the number of Trostenets victims at more than 45,000.
I again put forth my position to him. We assign the Jews to labor and that, of course, includes hard work such as the building of roads and canals, mining, and there they have a high mortality rate. Since the start of discussions on improving the Jews’ lot, they have been employed in normal work, but it goes without saying that they must, like all Germans, work in armaments production. Our view on the Jewish question is as follows: the position taken by America and England regarding the Jews does not interest us in any way. What is clear is that we do not want to have them in Germany and in the German living space, given the decades of experience since the [First] World War, and we shall not join in any discussion on the matter. If America wants to take them, we are glad of it. But it must be ruled out, and here a guarantee will have to be given to us, that the Jews whom we allow to leave [continental Europe] via Switzerland can ever be sent back to Palestine. We know that the Arabs, just as much as we Germans, reject the Jews and we do not want to partake in such an indecency as the sending of more Jews to that poor nation tormented by the Jews (zu einer solchen Unanständigkeit, diesem armen, von der Juden gequälten Volke neue Juden hinzuschicken) (document of the US Document Center, Berlin. Photograph in Werner Maser, Nürnberg, Tribunal der Sieger, Munich-Zürich, Droemer Knauer, 1979, p. 262-263).
Williamson states in a recent interview that Germany has paid $89 billion in reparations to Jewish organizations as compensation for the so-called Holocaust. She thinks these reparations are a good thing because they have helped to establish reconciliation between Jews and Germans. Williamson does not understand that the official Holocaust story is a fraud. She also fails to explain why Germans should not be compensated for the millions of Germans who were mass murdered by the Allies after World War II.[22]
Sen. Capehart’s remarks were interspersed with a mass of supporting evidence.[22]
Many of the outlandish tales embellishing the Holocaust story are roll-on-the-floor, side-splitting howlers. It may seem in extremely poor taste to poke fun at aspects of the Holocaust story, as I’m about to do, but if you find it so, don’t blame me. Blame those who have appended farcical chapters to what is, at heart, a truly tragic story.
But what about the testimony of those who claim to have witnessed gassings, you ask? Well, consider that for years a man named Martin Zaidenstadt, who claimed to be a survivor of Dachau, regaled gullible tourists with tales of his having witnessed gassings at the camp.11 Keep Mr. Zaidenstadt in mind whenever you hear eyewitness accounts, such as the one about children being thrown on top once all the floor space in the gas chamber had been filled by adults (featured on the website of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum),12 or the one about the condemned being given a “nice haircut” just prior to being led into the gas chamber (featured in the acclaimed 1985 movie Shoah),13 or the one about a young girl repeatedly swallowing the family jewels hidden in the hem of her skirt whenever she feared she was about to be searched, then digging them out of her poop and sewing them back in (in the video archives of Steven Spielberg’s Shoah Foundation [“Shoah” is another term for the Holocaust]).14
These gas pipes and handprints are not evidence of Nazi atrocities, they are evidence of a deliberate Allied psychological warfare campaign to demonize the defeated Germans. Because this hoax is so obvious, no mainstream historian has ever taken that claim seriously. That does not prevent the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum from presenting it to an unsuspecting audience, though. Unfortunately, most people just accept whatever the government, media, or religion tell them to believe.
All photographs submitted by the author show the same machine, which has been exhibited at the National Museum in Kiev since 1974. In 1981 it was “reconstructed”, however some parts got lost never to be found again. The drum carries the inscription “Grusonwerk Magdeburg – Buckau” but no concrete information about the manufacturer exists. The Museum conceded that the bone mill was “not specifically constructed for the NS concentration camps” and that the problem mentioned in the author’s message “is of interest and should certainly be investigated, using all available sources.”
The Encyclopedia of the Holocaust shows a map with the most important locations where these activities are supposed to have transpired. This is a huge area which extends from north to south across approximately 1,500 kilometers and from west to east across some 1,300 kilometers.[14] On this gigantic territory, Blobel and his team are supposed to have dug up many hundreds of graves and to removed the bodies of the victims without leaving the slightest documentary or material traces! One really has to be a Holocaust historian or a Sanskrit scholar to believe such rubbish.
He was extradited to Israel (the place whose statutes of limitation barred the extradition of Salomon Morel), tried there, sentenced to death, and subsequently freed by the Israeli Supreme Court’s ruling that there was insufficient evidence to convict him, and a subsequent case, brought after restoration of his US citizenship from Germany, where he was again being tried in the light of “new evidence.”
Another woman suffered from scabies. She was treated at the Auschwitz hospital and recovered. And yet she seems to believe that:
Walter Lüftl, a court-recognized expert engineer who headed a large engineering firm in Vienna, concludes in his report that the stories of gas chambers with Diesel engines and gas vans at places such as Treblinka can only be disinformation. Lüftl states:
In his book Die Eichmann-Männer from 1993, holocaust historian Hans Safrian mentions H.G. Adler's 1974 hypothesis of the five October transports from Theresienstadt as plausible, while also referencing Grünberg's statements.[78] Safrian estimates that at least 30,000 Western Jews and a vague “tens of thousands” of Belorusian Jews were murdered at Trostenets. He arrives at the first figure by assuming that all transports sent to the Minsk area from Central Europe in 1942 – “21 transports” with “over 25,000 men, women and children from Terezin, Vienna and Cologne” – together with some additional, undocumented transports in the same year (likely meant are the five October transports from Theresienstadt) were murdered at Trostenets.[79]
Consider the term ‘Holocaust denier.’ This is, in fact, a nearly meaningless phrase. What, after all, can it mean to ‘deny’ the Holocaust? In order to deny something, we first need to know what it is. By general consensus, this event has three central elements: (1) roughly 6 million Jewish deaths, (2) homicidal gas chambers, and (3) systematic intentionality on the part of the Nazis. Therefore, we require all three conditions to exist, if we are to have a “Holocaust.” In theory, if someone were to refute any one of these three points, he would be a “Holocaust denier.”
Hilberg also acknowledged in his testimony that there was no autopsy report nor scientific report showing that anyone was killed in any gas chamber anywhere in German-occupied territories.[30] Subsequent scientific reports by American-gas-chamber expert Fred Leuchter, Austrian court-recognized expert engineer Walter Lüftl, and certified chemist Germar Rudolf all prove that Zyklon B could not have been used to exterminate humans in the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek.
There is, first of all, the story of elderly people being carted away from the “ramp” on a dump truck that took them straight to the burning trenches and tipped them into the fire alive. Leaving aside the question of whether it was possible to drive a heavy truck across the swampy ground of Birkenau without getting stuck, we reach a limit when we imagine this truck being carefully backed up to the edge of a trench blazing with fire and then dumping its uncooperative load. This can simply not be done in a matter of seconds and there is thus a serious risk of the truck catching fire or even exploding in the process. Any German soldier foolish enough to undertake such a highly risky and totally useless operation would certainly have been court-martialed for endangering government property, if not for outright sabotage.
Overall, the morgues of the Birkenau crematoria were always required for use as such, from morning to night, something which would have been impossible if they had been transformed into “undressing rooms” and “gas chambers” for the extermination of the Jews[125].
The incineration of large numbers of people in Dresden is also indicated by estimates of the extreme temperature reached in Dresden during the firestorm. While no survivor has ever reported the actual temperature reached during the Dresden firestorm, many historians estimate that temperatures reached 1,500° Centigrade (2,732° Fahrenheit).[35] Since temperatures in a cremation chamber normally reach only 1,400 degrees to 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit[36], large numbers of people in Dresden would have been incinerated from the extreme heat generated in the firestorm.
In his lengthy study, E. Conan wanted to show the great distance between “remembrance” and history. He did so without calling into question the dogma of the “Holocaust”; he even went so far as to state his belief in the existence of the weapon of mass destruction called “gas chamber”, and he posited certain assertions devoid of the least scientific foundation as being exact and demonstrated. Nonetheless he had the courage to denounce some serious lies, amongst which that of the emblematic “gas chamber” presented today to visitors at Auschwitz. And he dares to admit that, in the late 1970s, I was right about the matter. In 2005 I asked him whether his study had given rise to any rectifications or protests, particularly on the part of the Auschwitz State Museum authorities and Krystyna Oleksy. His answer was: “None”.
Archeological investigations of Belzec concentration camp in the late 1990s found no trace of the alleged homicidal gas chambers. Holocaust researcher Robin O’Neal, a firm believer in the traditional Holocaust narrative and one of those who took part in the archeological investigations of Belzec, admitted: “We found no trace of the gassing barracks dating from either the first or second phase of the camp’s construction.”[17]
Yockey alludes in Imperium to what he presumably saw, and the reports he had read as a reviewer at the war crimes office at Wiesbaden. Yockey therefore might be considered a primary witness to events, regardless of quips about him as an “American Hitler” put about under the guise of “scholarship.” Hence as early as 1948 Yockey wrote in a chapter entitled “Propaganda,” that the propaganda used to push the USA into war against Germany was nothing compared to “the massive, post-war, ‘concentration camp’ propaganda of the Culture-distorting regime based in Washington.”[27] He continues:
Another prosecution witness at this trial was Dennis Urstein, who claimed he saw bodies hauled out of the gas chamber at Auschwitz. Urstein described the bodies as “greyish-greenish” in color. However, persons who have died from Zyklon-B poisoning turn a bright cherry-red color. Urstein also claimed that he wore no protective clothing when assisting with the disposal of bodies in the gas chamber. If this had been the case, he would very soon have died as well. Urstein was exposed by Douglas Christie as a totally unreliable witness.[10]
Carlo Mattogno has prepared a long list of children and twins at Auschwitz who survived the camp.[9] Mattogno provides the following reasons why Mengele did not commit his alleged crimes against twins at Auschwitz:
On November 20, the International Military Tribunal in Nuremberg begins. Two months before this, in September, the Bergen-Belsen trial against Josef Kramer and others is conducted.
In her entry for April 6, 1941, Danuta Czech mentions that typhus was introduced to the Auschwitz Camp by inmates transferred from Lublin. However, she does not support her claim with any contemporaneous documents. Her next entry mentioning the dreaded disease is more than a year later, on May 10, 1942, where she remarks that the Auschwitz garrison physician Dr. Siegfried Schwela died of the disease. Hence, not only the inmates, but also the SS personnel were affected by the epidemic. Dr. Schwela’s successor, Dr. Kurt Uhlenbrok, got infected as well and, being unable to perform his duties, was relieved of the post only a month later, on June 9 (although Czech reports about this only in her entry for August 17). Thus, the pivotal post of garrison physician, responsible for the camp’s hygiene, was pretty much unoccupied until after the peak of the epidemic. The camp’s health and sanitary situation started to improve only after Dr. Eduard Wirths, previously posted as garrison physician of the Dachau Camp, showed up at Auschwitz on September 6 to take over Uhlenbrok’s position.[11]
The first plans of the camp, the Lageplan des Kriegsgefangenenlagers-Auschwitz O.S (Diagram of Auschwitz POW Camp, Upper Silesia) of 7 and 14 October 1941[39] contemplated 174 housing barracks, but already that of 5 January 1942[40] contained 282, that of 6 June[41] 360 and that of 16 August 513[42]. The capacity is indicated only in the last one. This plan appears divided into four sectors, of them three with 153 housing barracks each per 60,000 prisoners and one with 54 housing barracks for 20,000 prisoners, so that the total capacity was 200,000 prisoners. The plan of 6 June 1942 consists of two sectors with 153 housing barracks each and one with 54 barracks; therefore the anticipated manpower force should have been 140,000 prisoners, but, as we shall soon see, it was 150,000. On the other hand, the 282 housing barracks of the plan of 5 January 1942 were clearly intended for 125,000 persons. In practice, from 7 and 14 October 1941 to 16 August 1942, the number of persons anticipated for each housing barrack decreased by half (125,000 ÷ 174 =) 718 to (200,000 ÷ 513 =) 390.
Another example of Allied censorship is when Jean-Pierre Pradervand of the ICRC gave Gen. Bedell Smith, Eisenhower’s chief of staff, pictures of starved, dying German prisoners at Thorée les Pins. These prisoners had recently been transferred from the Americans to the French. Pradervand’s photographs disappeared into Eisenhower’s office, not to be seen again until they reappeared as evidence of atrocities in French POW camps. Then the photographs disappeared forever. They are not preserved among the many photographs in the Smith collection at Abilene. The world press issued a story exonerating the U.S. Army, and the German POWs kept on dying.[19]
In practice, therefore, the camps of Auschwitz, Birkenau and Monowitz alone already had buildings with a total volume of at least approximately 500,000 m3. One complete disinfestation of these camps with the standard amount of 8 g HCN per m3 would therefore have required almost 4 metric tons of Zyklon B (net HCN content).
Soon enough we arrived at the pathway (the symbolic “tube”) that led to the famous central monument: a toadstool-like monolith located at the very spot of the alleged gas chambers (Photo 8). Here we were, at the heart of Treblinka, the site of the most horrendous kill rate of the entire Holocaust: of the 912,000 victims, 837,000 were killed in just six months of 1942, according to the camp’s (and Burba’s) “official” tally. (The remaining 75,000 died in 1943.) This works out to nearly 140,000 per month, 35,000 per week, or 5,000 per day, every day, rain or shine, for six months. Not even Auschwitz during the alleged Hungarian massacre could match this rate.
Dr. Nyiszli said that he wrote innumerable autopsy reports and signed them with his tattoo number. These reports were signed by his superior, Dr. Mengele, and then shipped to a medical center in Berlin-Dahlem. Nyiszli also wrote that he sent countless autopsy specimens to Berlin-Dahlem, and that he received replies about them with detailed scientific commentary or instructions. Based on descriptions in his book, Nyiszli performed at least 170 autopsies while at Auschwitz. Despite these autopsy reports allegedly written and signed by Nyiszli, and the “countless” packages of autopsy specimens sent to a medical institute in Berlin-Dahlem, there is not a single piece of paper in the documentary record bearing Nyiszli’s signature.[25]
It is worth noting, in this respect, that on p. 208 of The Case…, van Pelt shows a drawing of what the wire-mesh columns may have looked like; the top of the column is contained in some kind of shaft with a lid on it, but this lid is almost flush with a line apparently indicating the surface of the earth cover on the crematorium roof. The arbitrariness in the design and in the interpretation of these wire-mesh columns thus becomes obvious.
[30] Hoffman, Michael A., The Great Holocaust Trial, 3rd edition, Dresden, N.Y., Wiswell Ruffin House, 1995, p. 51.
It is not only Jews that use the Holocaust as a weapon against Christian White people, for Non-White intellectuals do the same. The Black-American evolutionary biologist and critic of White Culture, Joseph L. Graves Jr., stated: “The roots of the twentieth century Holocaust were planted with the behavior of Christians [read: White Europeans] toward Jews in medieval Europe.”[88]
Likewise, Goldman ridicules the notion of human remains “yet to be discovered” at Jasenovac, and he rightly jabs a finger at the Yugoslav government, who, “during its 47-year rule of the site, never bothered once to try and locate these mysterious ‘missing’ remains.” The same, of course, can be said for the current Croatian government and its on-going 30-year rule. (One strongly suspects that there are simply no remains to be found there.) But this again raises the same question for the other camps: Where are the remains of anything approaching 1 million Jewish bodies at Auschwitz? Or 900,000 Jewish bodies at Treblinka? Or 600,000 Jewish bodies at Belzec? Do we have anything? Bodies, bones, ash—anything? Do we even have the holes in the ground where the Germans were said to bury the hundreds of thousands of victims, only to later dig them up and burn them “to ash” on open-air fires over wooden logs? Based on my years of research, the answer to all these questions is ‘no.’
Conflicting accounts were also given of the length of time it took to asphyxiate victims, varying from ten to thirty minutes. Disagreements are on record, too, about how the corpses were removed from the ‘gas chambers’ and how they were disposed of.
As previously stated, it is also not survivable to enter “gas chambers” and then drag and carry the dead bodies with bare hands with only a gas mask as a protective measure. Germar Rudolf states: “It should not be forgotten here that hydrogen cyanide is a contact poison. Transporting corpses, on whose skin huge, possibly lethal amounts of hydrogen cyanide are absorbed, [would have] required that the special commands dealing with these corpses had to wear protective clothes.”[23]
The use of false witnesses has been acknowledged by Johann Neuhäusler, who was an ecclesiastical resistance fighter interned in two German concentration camps from 1941 to 1945. Neuhäusler stated that in some of the American-run trials “many of the witnesses, perhaps 90%, were paid professional witnesses with criminal records ranging from robbery to homosexuality.”[12]
- The barrack in which the chambers V and VI are said to have been installed has vanished without a trace – if it ever existed; the Polish Majdanek historians are not even able to show its precise location[8];
The Ellis Island Reception center held people whose loyalty was in question. Of those interned, there was evidence that some had pro-Axis sympathies. Many others were interned based on weak evidence or unsubstantiated accusations of which they were never told or had little power to refute. [11] During the first two years of the war, Ellis Island was used primarily as a transit and holding camp. By January 1943, the population of German internees had stabilized at about 350 enemy aliens and their dependents.  Upon arrival prisoners would have their clothes replaced with a pair of American army shoes, khaki socks, shirt, and underwear.
Erika Kounio-Amarilio, Almpertos Nar (eds.), Prophorikes martyries Hevraiōn tēs Thessalonikēs gia to Holokautōma (Oral Testimonies of the Jews from Thesssaloniki about the Holocaust), Thessaloniki: Paratērētēs 1998,  494 pages, ISBN: 978-9602609408 (newer edition: Athens: Ekdoseis Eurasia, 2015; ISBN 9786185027506, 516 pp.)
Henry Leader was another witness at this trial who got the body color of the alleged Zyklon-B gas victims wrong. Leader said the color of the gassing victims was blue.[11] The failure of Jewish eyewitnesses to give credible testimony at the 1985 Ernst Zündel trial caused Alan Dershowitz to write that the trial was “a total victory for Holocaust deniers and a total disaster for Holocaust survivors and the Jewish people.”[12]
These three photos thus invite the comparison of a door of a real execution gas chamber (located in Baltimore) on the one hand, with a door, shown first open and then closed, of an alleged execution gas chamber (located at Auschwitz-I) on the other.
Enter Dr. Robert Jan van Pelt, an important member of Lipstadt’s defense team who authored the very important anti-Holocaust-revisionist tome, The Case for Auschwitz: Evidence from the Irving Trial. He claimed that Holocaust revisionism is an evil assault upon the Jewish self-image and identity. In a frank and honest discussion, he admitted that, when he read Holocaust-revisionist literature, he “had come face to face with a dangerous personal abyss.” His implicit conclusion is that this is one of the main reasons why Holocaust revisionism should be attacked and destroyed.31
Let us, then, investigate this great crime ourselves. Let us examine the central elements of the Holocaust story, ask tough questions, and see where the evidence leads.
Some of the German PWs are being held in camps in a manner contrary to all humanitarian principles and flagrantly contrary to the Hague [and Geneva] Convention. All along the Rhine from Remagen-Sinzig to Ludwigshafen the German prisoners have been penned up for weeks without any protection from the weather, without drinking water, without medical care and with only a few slices of bread to eat. They could not even lie down on the floor [ground]. These were many hundreds of thousands. It is said that the same is true in the interior of Germany. These people died by the thousands. They stood day and night in wet mud up to their ankles! Conditions have improved during the past few weeks. Of course the enormous number of prisoners is one of the causes for these conditions but it is noteworthy that to the best of my knowledge, it took a great many weeks to improve at least the worst conditions. The impression made on the Germans by the publication of facts about the concentration camps was greatly weakened by this fact…I know that in the winter of 1941-1942 the Russian prisoners were very badly treated by the Germans and we ought to be ashamed of the fact, but I feel that you ought not to do the same thing. German prisoners too in camps ate grass and picked leaves from the trees because they were hungry exactly as the Russians unfortunately did.[23]
Czech Holocaust historian Miroslav Karny has made the following comment on Adler's later hypothesis:
Particularly at risk were the children born in the camp, who were numerous; on 21 May 1943, Rudolf Höss, the commandant at Auschwitz, spoke of “approximately 50 births per day of children in the Gypsy camp.”[23]
It is commonly alleged that a small (approximately 14 hectares large) camp in eastern Poland, usually denoted Treblinka II, served as a “pure extermination camp” for Jews between the end of July 1942 and August 1943. It is further alleged that at this camp somewhere between 700,000 and 900,000 Jews were killed with engine exhaust fumes in gas chambers, and that until March 1943 the victims were buried in huge mass graves. After this date, the hundreds of thousands of buried bodies – at least 713,555 corpses – were allegedly disinterred and incinerated, together with thousands of “fresh” victims, on cremation grates made of concrete blocks and railway gauge with wood used as fuel.[1]
It is little surprise that the discovery of the diary of Rosenberg, which had been missing since the Nuremberg trials, excited staunch believers in the official Holocaust narrative. In fact, had the Holocaust occurred as generally understood and as relayed through many books, films, and museums, the Rosenberg Diary should have contained a wealth of horrifying discoveries. One might have even expected a philosophical defense of the policies that led to mass extermination.
Conversely, Amaudruz had no other option available to him other than to contest and protest the legality of the Swiss law applicable to “Holocaust denial.”
Jan Sehn, the Polish judge who led the investigation leading up to the Polish post-war show trials against former members of the German Auschwitz camp staff, wrote the following about this in his 1960 book on Auschwitz:[5]
This Jewish influence caused the Allies to give special attention to the alleged extermination of 6 million Jews. Chief U.S. prosecutor Robert H. Jackson, for example, declared in his opening address to the Nuremberg Tribunal:[33]
The main purpose of this sib was to stir up hostility between the Churches and the National Socialist Government over the issue of eugenics and euthanasia. SO1’s French specialist Prof. Denis Brogan (a Cambridge political scientist) was said to have “extremely ﬁne Catholic contacts” in various countries,[23] and “Catholic channels for rumours” were also discussed with Douglas Woodruff, the inﬂuential editor of the Catholic journal The Tablet.[24] At this very early stage, the gassing rumor was restricted to “incurables” – it was a story about euthanasia rather than politically or racially motivated executions.
Fig. 3: Jewish prisoners forced to work in a unit of Sonderkommando 1005, in front of a bone mill at Janowska concentration camp. From left to right: Unknown person, David Manusevitz and Moses Korn (USHMM caption).
“Behind this campaign to punish me and suppress the truth about the gas chambers, have been several Jewish organizations, which have publicly vowed to silence me by destroying my ability to make a living.”
The term Holocaust commonly refers to the systematically planned and executed extermination of six million Jews by Nazi Germany during World War Two. Mainstream historians agree that, of these six million Jews, approximately three million were killed in gas chambers. The vast majority of them, they say, were killed or died in six extermination centers in Polish territory. Here is a break-down of these three million alleged gas chamber victims by each of the six camps.
The alleged genocide of European Jewry has been used to justify the Allied war effort, to establish the State of Israel, to justify Israeli violence against its neighbors, to induce guilt in both Germans and the Allied nations, to cover up and ignore Allied crimes against Germans, to allow Jews to receive massive reparations from Germany, and to create solidarity in the Jewish community. The extreme importance of the Holocaust story in advancing Zionist/Jewish interests ensures that this falsification of history will continue in the future.
As already mentioned, these Jews would necessarily have reached Romania and Transnistria via Auschwitz.
Richard Glazar was a Jew sent to Treblinka at the beginning of October 1942. He said he spent 10 months in Treblinka before escaping from the camp.[11] Glazar in his memoirs also stated that exhaust gasses from motors were used in the gas chambers at Treblinka:
As already seen above in our discussion of the Jews from the Białystok district deported to Auschwitz in 1943, there still existed a huge unfulfilled need for labor in Auschwitz with its many subcamps in late 1942/early 1943, and this situation may well have persisted, although to a smaller degree, until the time period in question here (August/September 1943).
American intelligence officers reported that most Bolshevik leaders were Jews. The New York office of The Military Intelligence Division (MID) reported “that there is now definite evidence that Bolshevism is an international movement controlled by Jews.” In Bern, an American agent reported that 90% of those attending secret Bolshevik meetings were Jews. The British government also obtained evidence that the Bolshevik movement throughout the world is an international conspiracy of Jews. The official MID viewpoint was that “Jewish intellectuals have had the leading and commanding part everywhere,” and because of “the growing power of the Jews,” they practically controlled the Soviet government.[6]
Photo 2: Crematorium floor plan (room 5 = gas chamber).
Answer: None! For reasons unknown, Nadjari neglected to depict the most important part of his testimony. He has also drawn a rough sketch of Bunker 2, as well as a map of the camp which fills an entire page, yet the crematoriums are nowhere to be found???
“But does all this mean that Hitler made a decision in autumn 1941 to exterminate the Jews? Is this when the Holocaust as we know it began? A number of new initiatives certainly came together at this time, including not only the decision to deport Jews from the Old Reich and Protectorate to the east, and the construction of killing installations at Chelmno and Belzec in Poland, but also Hitler’s own comments in private that October about the Jews. Ominously, he quoted from the ’extermination’ speech he had given in January 1939. ’From the rostrum of the Reichstag’, he said on 25 October 1941, ’I prophesied to Jewry that, in the event of war’s proving inevitable, the Jew would disappear from Europe. That race of criminals has on its conscience the two million dead of the First World War, and now already hundreds of thousands more... It’s not a bad idea, by the way, that public rumour attributes to us a plan to exterminate the Jews.’” (p. 237)
They show the outside of the clothing fumigation chamber doors, located at the end of the building, then show the inside of the shower room door, located all the way over here. There are four disinfestation chambers, not one.
Hamsun was severely disturbed and outraged by the calculated, vindictive and cruel treatment meted out by the English to the innocent Boers (farmers) in the Jewish-instigated Anglo-Boer War (1899-1902).[5] In an unprecedented scorched-earth policy, the English razed the Boers’ homesteads, slaughtered their cattle (mainly by cutting their tendons “to save ammunition”), and raped their women. The English destroyed twenty-five towns and their contents. They herded 136,000 women and children into 46 concentration camps and housed in tents, where in some camps during winter, temperatures plummeted to freezing. 27,927 [6] of them died of starvation and exposure, of whom 22,074 or 79% were under the age of 16. Henceforth Hamsun would adopt an anti-English stance for the rest of his life.
One of the standard claims of the orthodox Holocaust story is that Western Christendom created the climate of opinion that made the alleged mass murder of six million Jews possible.[5] Accordingly, European Christianity is to a large extent responsible for this horrendous massacre. Bishop Brian Farrell, vice president of the Pontifical Commission for Religious Relations with the Jews, expressed this sentiment when he stated the Holocaust is a religious concern because it “took place in the heart of what was the supposedly Christian continent of Europe.”[6]
Not only has he no idea what kind of gas they used or how, but his description of the gas chamber is totally wrong. The room in question was actually 30 × 7 meters in size, with seven concrete pillars, and according to official history, four wire-mesh columns as well as fake shower heads. Therefore, whoever provided him with this information had never set foot in that basement and wasn’t familiar with the mainstream narrative either.
Such a suspicion has nothing improbable about it. It is well known that the authorities of the Auschwitz Museum indulged in even bolder manipulations, in particular, through the “reconstruction” of the alleged gas chamber in Crematorium I of the Stammlager, which was fobbed off as original and authentic until 1992.[45]
The so-called Holocaust was used by the Allies to demonize Germany and prove that their war effort was necessary to defeat such an evil nation.
Most of the Vorstand [executive board] members were present at the many technical-committee meetings when funds for Auschwitz were allocated. The technical men joined them when they went to the afternoon board meeting, for every member of the technical committee was also a Vorstand member. The Vorstand had to approve every act of the technical committee—every decision, every construction, every purchase, every dollar appropriated.
“The sources do not allow us to determine how many of the nearly 80,000 victims of the camp were murdered in gas chambers. An indication is contained only in the statement by Ruppert who estimated the number of gassed to have been 500 to 600 detainees per week in the last quarter of 1942 and the number of Warsaw Jews murdered in the gas chamber in the spring of 1943 to have amounted to some 4,000 or 5,000 persons” (p. 227).
In addition to torturing defendants into making confessions, some defendants did not live to see the beginning of their trials. For example, Richard Baer, the last commandant of Auschwitz, adamantly denied the existence of homicidal gas chambers in his pre-trial interrogations at the Frankfurt Auschwitz Trial. Baer died in June 1963 under mysterious circumstances while being held in pretrial custody. An autopsy performed on Baer at the Frankfurt-am-Main University School of Medicine said that the ingestion of an odorless, non-corrosive poison could not be ruled out as a cause of death.
Despite claims that Mengele performed cruel and lethal experiments on twins at Auschwitz, almost all of the twins Mengele enrolled in his research at Auschwitz survived the war. In fact, so many twins survived Mengele’s research that, in 1984, they helped form an association titled Children of Auschwitz Nazi Deadly Experiment Survivors (CANDLE). This association’s name is a misnomer, because if the experiments were deadly, how could there be so many survivors? Also, if young children unable to work had been immediately selected for gassing at Auschwitz as claimed by “Holocaust” historians, how could so many children at Auschwitz survive the war?[19]
What this indicates is that it was the USA that had the particular interest in German findings on chemical warfare, and had no interest in German research on cancer, giving the impression that there was no real German research on cancer. It should by now be sufficiently known that the USA has itself engaged in medical experiments, and outright psychological torture,[17] on its own citizens, that cannot even be mitigated by the USA having at the time been under direct assault from enemy forces (as Germany was). Pointing out such matters is described as “relativizing the Holocaust,” which is allegedly “worse than Holocaust denial.” One might ask whether such “relativity;’ is so abhorred because it implies that Gentile suffering is as serious as Jewish suffering, violating the Talmudic axiom that Gentiles are inferior?[18] Therefore it was enough for veteran French politician Jean-Marie LePen to have said, “The Holocaust was a detail of Second World War history,” to have him pilloried for “hate crimes,” despite his not having “denied” the reality of the “Holocaust,” nor even apparently the sacrosanct 6,000,000 figure. LePen’s thoughtcrime was that he had “relativized the Holocaust,” or what in Germany is called “minimising the Holocaust,”[19] rather than accepting that it must remain the central tragedy of the entirety of human history.
“Blick auf die Haken vor der Tür zu den Gaskammern in Buchenwald.”[35]
Violette Fintz, a Jewish woman who had been deported from the island of Rhodes to Auschwitz in mid-1944, and then to Dachau and then to Belsen in early 1945, said that from her experience Belsen was worse than Auschwitz. Fintz is another Jew who survived Auschwitz and lived to describe her experiences at the camp.[26]
The fate of Anne Frank, who is known around the world for her famous diary, is typical of many Jews who died in German camps during the war. Anne and her father were first deported from the Netherlands to Auschwitz-Birkenau in September 1944. Anne’s father contracted typhus at Auschwitz and was sent to the camp hospital to recover. He was one of thousands of Jews who remained at Auschwitz when the Germans abandoned the camp in January 1945. He survived the war and died in Switzerland in 1980.
From September 1942, Birkenau became the selection center for Jewish manpower for German industries, either already in existence or in the planning stage, within the territory of Auschwitz, while simultaneously serving as a transit camp for non-able-bodied Jews deported within the framework of the Ostwanderung.
In their zeal to prosecute the heretics and agnostics who publicly questioned the use of homicidal gas chambers in the concentration camps, it was necessary for German courts and prosecutors to rely on old legislation dating back to the Third Reich.
Rees backs this up with other Hitler statements, thus poking another hole in the Holocaust storyline. Harsh words like these appear all the time as proof, but clearly they are not enough anymore. But Rees still has to explain the absence of a written order. He tries with the following trick:
Niemöller claimed that Germans were receiving no better than “the lowest ration ever heard of in a Nazi concentration camp.”[28]
“I was arrested on 11 March 1946 (at 11 pm). My phial of poison had been broken two days before. When I was aroused from sleep, I thought at first, I was being attacked by robbers, for many robberies were taking place at that time. That was how they managed to arrest me. I was maltreated by the Field Security Police. I was dragged to Heide where I was put in those very barracks from which I had been released by the British eight months earlier. At my first interrogation, evidence was obtained by beating me. I do not know what is in the protocol, although I signed it. Alcohol and the whip were too much for me. The whip was my own, which by chance had gotten into my wife’s luggage. It had hardly ever touched my horse, far less the prisoners. Nevertheless, one of my interrogators was convinced that I had perpetually used it for flogging the prisoners.
The German dead do not tell the entire story of the genocide that was inflicted on Germans after World War II. German women who had been repeatedly raped had to bear the physical and psychological scars for the rest of their lives. Millions of German expellees who lost all of their real estate and most of their personal property were never compensated by the Allies. Instead, they had to live in abject poverty in Germany after expulsion from their ancestral homes. Millions of other Germans had their property stolen or destroyed by Allied soldiers.
Erstens ist das noch nicht einmal Buchenwald. Dies ist ein Foto einer Entlausungskammer in Dachau.
In early 2000, Lipstadt’s notoriety was firmed up by the high-profile libel case brought by British historian David Irving. Irving, who lost the case, charged that he was libeled when Lipstadt labeled him a “Holocaust denier” in her attack upon the revisionist movement, Denying History: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory.[2] Her rendition of this headline grabbing case, History on Trial: My Day in Court with David Irving, was a National Jewish Book Award winner.
The German concentration camps at Buchenwald, Sachsenhausen, Mühlberg, Fürstenwalde, Liebe-Roze, Bautzen and other locations were taken over by the Russian Gulag Archipelago. The camp at Buchenwald, for example, was transformed into “Special Camp No. 2” and was operated by the Soviet Union until 1950.[2] Conditions at the camps under Soviet control were atrocious. The camps were labeled “special” because the Soviets insisted that the internees be cut off completely from the civilian population.[3] Even Gen. Merkulov, the Soviet official in charge of the concentration camps in Germany, acknowledged the severe lack of order and cleanliness, particularly at Buchenwald.[4]
Nevertheless, historians as well as scientists are under an obligation to be truthful and accurate in their investigation and presentation of facts, insofar as that is humanly possible. While one may and should empathize with the victims, the obligation to scientifically document the crime remains of paramount concern to honest scholars and researchers legitimately interested in fully establishing the truth of precisely what did or did not occur at Auschwitz, and no aspect of evidence may be ignored to the exclusion of others, however “offensive” it may be to the mind and memory of anyone.
Inspired by another paper, this paper briefly probes the Yad Vashem database of Holocaust victims. It turns out that the database contains many names of survivors, and that individuals are listed in it twice or even numerous times.
La successiva consegna da parte delle autorità russe dei registri dei morti al Museo di Auschwitz ha portato la cifra dei decessi nominativi per questo campo da 52.389 a 68.864, il che non muta nulla al quadro generale. Sui ghetti, non ci sono informazioni generali. Tra quelli più grandi, per Varsavia sono documentati circa 10.000 decessi nominativi, per Lodz forse tutti i circa 47.000 e per Theresienstadt forse tutti i circa 34.000. Aggiungendo eventuali liste nominative dei decessi di altri ghetti, ben difficilmente si arriverebbe a 350.000.
One of those is, of course, controversial, namely that the importance placed upon this great crime and perhaps even our view of the scope of it, has grown, for various reasons, since Nuremberg. This seems impossible to those of us below forty, who could be forgiven after switching on ‘The History Channel’, or reading the plethora of literature still devoted to it, (as this article was being written, three of the top-ten bestselling non-fiction books in Britain were about Auschwitz or other aspects of Nazi Jewish Policy) for thinking that the Holocaust was the defining event of the 20th century.
“Armontrout testified that there was only one consultant in the United States that he knew of in the design, operation, and maintenance of gas chambers. That consultant was Fred Leuchter. (32-8896)”
From California it came, a voice of pure evil, whispering gently, persuasively into the phone . . . . on the very day President Clinton dedicated the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, here was this voice, this man, Bradley Smith. . . .
Two, this idea seems to be a pure invention by Goldstein to explain away a troublesome fact, namely, lack of forensic evidence at Jasenovac—meaning any corpses, ash, or other human remains. And by “pure invention,” I mean an outright lie. By all accounts, Goldstein lied to cover up a critical and damning fact. Anyone who has studied the Holocaust story knows that such lies are legion.[2]
Müller’s affidavit at the Auschwitz trial, if it were understood to mean that the human fat collection pits were separated from the cremation pits and were located a few meters further away from the edges of the cremation pit in each case, makes no sense in practice. As shown by the related diagram (Figure 2), in this case the human fat channel would have been even longer. Assuming for example a distance of 3 meters, it would descend to a depth of (23.5 x 0.06 =) approximately 1.4 meters, down to 3.4 meters from the surface of the ground. It would be necessary to dig a pit next to the cremation pit from the level of the ground 2 x 2 x 3.7 meters deep (in this case 0.3 meters deeper than the mouth of the human fat channel), but by hand it would be impossible to excavate the stretch of channel linking the two pits together, because this would start from a depth of (22.5 x 0.06 =) approximately 1.3 meters from the edge of the cremation pit (Point B of Figure 2) up to approximately 1.4 meters from the edge of the collection pit (Point D), because, from the level of the ground, it would be necessary to excavate – by hand – a channel 25-30 centimeters wide and from 3.3 to 3.4 meters deep.
“Soon after we had arrived in Auschwitz, my father, seeing how routine selections were conducted and that children were most at risk, came up with a strategy to beat the system. Every morning when we had to line up for the daily counting exercise, I would try to stand all the way in the back and very close to the entrance of the barrack. As soon as we had been counted and if it appeared that there might be a selection, I would try to slip back into the barrack and hide. That strategy saved me a number of times. It was not always easy to execute, however, because I had to disappear without being seen by the SS or the barrack boss, but I was never caught.”
The possibility that any of these diseases originated from the work on Plum Island and their outbreaks resulted from unsafe work conditions provides the intrigue—the reason to read, and perhaps write, the book. This conspiratorial plotline, complete with suggestions of cover-ups, draws in readers who might otherwise have little interest in the history of a USDA facility. But Carroll’s research fails to persuade. In fact, for all his hard work the evidence remains circumstantial at best. He summarizes his argument in this way:
We are already familiar with most of these problems. One is the use of diesel engines for homicidal gassing—it is simply absurd to think that, with the advanced science and technology of Nazi Germany, diesels are the best they could do. And yet, orthodoxy insists on the diesel story. Previously we saw the quotation by Orth, regarding Chelmno and the Reinhardt camps. Hilberg evidently agrees: “Belzec is reported to have been equipped with a diesel motor; Treblinka is said to have had one from the start” (2003: 936). According to the USHMM, “In 1942, systematic mass killing in stationary gas chambers (with carbon monoxide gas generated by diesel engines) began at Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka, all in Poland.”[50] Yad Vashem says this: “The [Treblinka] extermination area included a brick building that housed three gas chambers. A diesel engine was housed in an adjoining shed—this engine produced the carbon monoxide, which fueled the chambers.”[51] In another entry, they write,
But while Winston had no principles, there was one constant in his life: the love of war. It began early. As a child, he had a huge collection of toy soldiers, 1500 of them, and he played with them for many years after most boys turn to other things. They were "all British," he tells us, and he fought battles with his brother Jack, who "was only allowed to have colored troops; and they were not allowed to have artillery."[19] He attended Sandhurst, the military academy, instead of the universities, and "from the moment that Churchill left Sandhurst … he did his utmost to get into a fight, wherever a war was going on."[20] All his life he was most excited — on the evidence, only really excited — by war. He loved war as few modern men ever have[21] — he even "loved the bangs," as he called them, and he was very brave under fire.
The origin of this “Niemöller’s Confession” lies in speeches Niemöller made in Germany in 1946, where he admitted his own complacency in Germany’s crimes. Like most Germans, Niemöller did not realize that he had been lied to by the Allies concerning the “Holocaust” and the origins of World War II.
Despite the inconsistencies in her testimony, historian Karel C. Berkhoff writes that historians of the alleged Babi Yar massacre should use Pronicheva’s and other testimonies much more extensively. Berkhoff writes: “The fact remains that only very few sources come as close as Pronicheva’s testimonies do to the horrendous details of Kiev’s Jewish Holocaust.”[xxiii]
Thus a leading Jewish institution still maintained in August 1943 that these French, Belgian and Dutch Jews were not murdered en masse, but simply deported to either Poland or the Occupied Eastern Territories, including the Soviet-German frontlines. The Jews of Germany, Austria and the Protectorate were also not thought to have been murdered en masse in "death camps". The figures for "organized murder" pertaining to these countries, we read on page 308, "refers to victims in concentration camps, mercy killings, and suicides after 1939."
Let us look at this from another angle. In Exodus 20:16 it is written: "You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor." Now, this false claim that the Germans murdered four million people at Auschwitz is in fact an example of various political elites (the Soviets, Polish communists, the Allies) bearing false witness against their German neighbors.
Various iron(III) oxide compounds are common in brickwork (bricks, mortar, cement, concrete, plaster), while cyanide compounds are not. The latter’s presence in the brickwork of delousing chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau is undoubtedly a function of exposure to gaseous hydrogen cyanide used during the camp’s operation between late 1941 and early 1945. All analyses of exposed surface of other objects have to date revealed cyanide residues that are either very close to or below the detection limit. Difficulties with the existing analytical methods, which are not designed for these atypical host materials, need to be overcome to allow more definite conclusions.
But Haimi and his team are optimistic. As reported in the above news story, they await permission to excavate under the asphalt lot. “Under this square—almost the size of a soccer field—they expect to find remnants of the gas chambers.” We await this development with bated breath.
Whether this atrocious torture was really practiced in any country and by any regime is open to discussion but it was certainly not practiced at Sachsenhausen. Whoever makes such wild claims is under the obligation to produce hard evidence. No former inmate and no SS man ever claimed to have witnessed such a scene. Only the professional criminal Erwin Rathmann, a man blessed with a particularly fevered imagination, mentions the rat torture although he does not claim to have seen it himself. We quote his statement without any modifications as translated into English. It contains several illegible words:[53]
Polish atrocities against ethnic Germans have been documented in the book Polish Acts of Atrocity against the German Minority in Poland. Most of the outside world dismissed this book as nothing more than propaganda used to justify Hitler’s invasion of Poland. However, skeptics failed to notice that forensic pathologists from the International Red Cross and medical and legal observers from the United States verified the findings of these investigations of Polish war crimes. These investigations were also conducted by German police and civil administrations, and not the National Socialist Party or the German military. Moreover, both anti-German and other university-trained researchers have acknowledged that the charges in the book are based entirely on factual evidence.[53]
Another academic historian provided reasons for the reader to be very skeptical of “eyewitness testimony” to the Holocaust. French-Jewish historian Pierre Vidal-Naquet briefly discussed eyewitnesses who claimed they “saw gas chambers” where there were none.[25] He admits “there were imaginary gas chambers.”[26] That is, many Holocaust survivors gave false testimony, claiming there were “homicidal mass gassings” where it is now known that they never happened. He cites the false testimony “of a Protestant theologian, Charles Hauter, who was deported to Buchenwald, never saw any gas chamber, and who went on to rave about them.”[27]
The allegations of mass executions in gas chambers are reminiscent of the atrocity stories from the last war, according to which the Germans were processing corpses into fat – a grotesque lie, which was immediately unmasked as pure propaganda.
Q. In what then did the problem of the final solution consist so far as you understood that term at that time and I emphasize your understanding of the term at that time?
Due to a lack of corroborating physical and documentary evidence, Crowell is skeptical of the mass homicidal gassing thesis, classifying it as a "conspiracy theory," which he defines as "a small group of people operating, as it were, invisibly, causing things to happen and covering the traces of their activity." He finds this an implausible line of thought, because "there is no material evidence to support the theory," i.e., no forensic evidence of homicidal gas chambers. Such an argument "demands the belief in unseen or invisible agency, which is able to accomplish its work without leaving behind clear material traces of its misdeeds." Crowell finds people who take such ideas seriously reminiscent of "those millennia of humans who attributed terrible events to demons, devils, or other invisible supernatural beings."
German and American patriots, along with sundry liberals expressing disquiet about the vengeance being wreaked upon Germany, took the matter up with Senator McCarthy, a member of the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, pressing for an inquiry.[49] The secretary of the army, Kenneth C. Royall, established a tribunal headed by Gordon Simpson of the Texas Supreme Court, Leroy van Roden, Pennsylvania judge, and Lieutenant Colonel Charles W. Lawrence of the U.S. Army.[50] The Simpson Commission recommended the commutation of all death sentences of the Malmedy defendants.[51] While the Simpson Commission report was “bland,” van Roden returned to the USA fully endorsing the allegations that interrogators had subjected the defendants to beatings, including “blows to the genitals,” threats of hanging during interrogations, and refusal of drinking water.[52] Colonel Strong, head of the War Crimes Group at Wiesbaden, testifying before the Senate investigation, was critical of the prejudiced manner of Colonel A. H. Rosenfeld, the “law member” of the court trying the Malmedy defendants, and stated that the prosecution team had obstructed and threatened witnesses.[53] Rosenfeld “had wielded great power, interpreting the law and making frequent procedural rulings for a bench whose members were combat soldiers inexpert in such matters. Rosenfeld had not allowed the defense to challenge the credibility of prosecution witnesses.”[54] The most prominent of the interrogators at Schwaebisch Hall was William R. Perl, a Prague-born Jewish lawyer from Austria, who had been active with Zionist emigration programs. He was attached to the War Crimes Branch of the U.S. Army in 1945. When incessantly questioned by Senator McCarthy, Perl “exploded” that there was so much “noise” about “one or two Germans getting slapped.”[55]
President Ahmadinejad has used the right word: the alleged “Holocaust” of the Jews is a “myth”, that is, a belief maintained by credulity or ignorance. In France it is perfectly lawful to proclaim unbelief in God but it is forbidden to say that one does not believe in the “Holocaust”, or simply that one has doubts about it. This prohibition of any kind of disputing became formal and official with the law of July 13, 1990. The said law was published in the Journal officiel de la République française on the next day, that is, the 14th of July, day of commemoration of the Republic and of Freedom. It states that the punishment may run to as much as a year’s imprisonment and a fine of up to €45,000, but there may also be orders to pay damages and the considerable costs of judicial publication. Relevant case law specifies that all this applies “even if [such disputing] is presented in veiled or dubitative form or by way of insinuation” (Code pénal, Paris, Dalloz, 2006, p. 2059). Thus France has but one official myth, that of the “Holocaust”, and knows but one form of blasphemy, that which offends the “Holocaust”.
German holocaust historian Christian Gerlach has commented thus on Kohl's book:
Second, and more importantly, once the alleged extermination process was underway, we have no direct evidence that either Hitler or Goebbels knew anything about it—which is inconceivable. Below I consider the account given by Kershaw (2000). He undertakes an amazing series of gyrations to argue that Hitler both planned the genocide of the Jews and knew about its progress, despite the lack of any evidence. His points overlap with the diary entries, which I will cover below. Suffice to say here that, on Kershaw’s reading, Hitler was incredibly aloof on the Jewish Question. “Even in his inner circle Hitler could never bring himself to speak with outright frankness about the killing of the Jews” (p. 487)—in other words, he never, ever spoke openly about this most-vital aspect of the entire Nazi program. Hitler’s comments were always “confined to generalities,” sprinkled in with the “occasional menacing allusion.” Thus, with a mere wink and a nod, the mass murder of 6 million Jews was effected.
Historian John Lukacs may have been the first to spot a real doozy, however – and right in the title. The reference to “Human Smoke,” attributed to Franz Halder (“one of Hitler’s restive but compliant generals”), is claimed in Baker’s epilogue to refer to the “flakes of smoke” that blew into Halder’s cell when he was imprisoned at Auschwitz. But as Lukacs notes, Halder was imprisoned at Flossenbürg and Dachau, but never Auschwitz. This revelation will of course come as no surprise to more intrepid revisionists, who are well familiar with such conflations. It’s best to move on, really.
4)   French biochemist and Auschwitz veteran Dr. Georges Wellers provides another explanation by stating that humans are considerably more sensitive to hydrogen cyanide than insects. The homicidal gassings at Auschwitz/Birkenau thus were conducted with smaller amounts of hydrogen cyanide over shorter times. Wellers says the victims would have inhaled almost all of the hydrogen cyanide, so there presumably was nothing left to react with the masonry.[11]
Next on our list is suppressing or ignoring unwanted data, which amounts to forgery, pure and simple. We don’t have to explain that in detail. However, there is a form of suppressing unwanted data that is particularly vicious, and that is when governments outlaw certain research results, punish scholars for disseminating them, and destroy unwelcome research publications. Believe it or not, but that’s exactly what happens in many Western countries today when it comes to the Holocaust. Here is a map of Europe. All the red countries destroy any research results and data that runs contrary to the official Holocaust dogma.
Due to Rudolf's expertise as a chemist, he found himself being called by several defense lawyers to be an expert witness in trials against revisionists in Germany. These included trials against Udo Walendy (February 1992), Gerd Honsik (March 1992), David Irving (May 1992), Max Wahl (July 1992). Rudolf found that in these and other trials that the judges rejected any and all evidence presented by the defense, including that of expert witnesses. He writes:
Rees starts with early anti-Semitism in Germany, Hitler’s rise to power, the Nuremberg Laws, the first concentration camps, and the deportations. These are not in dispute, so we can skip them. What we want to know is what Rees has to say about the extermination claims. Most importantly, is there anything really new?
Not a lot of detail was given at first, but the vague form of this newly revised Holocaust story was that these SS men herded Jews together at various locales and there shot them. Some were allegedly killed in 'gas vans' or via other means, but the majority were shot or machine-gunned. This is of great interest to revisionists. Hitherto revisionist researchers had focused their attention primarily on gas chambers, Zyklon B, cremation rates, open pit burnings, high water tables, coke deliveries, death records, and similar, chipping and gouging away at court sanctioned history. But the Einsatzgruppen idea was something relatively new. Only limited revisionist research has been done on this subject.
If we have a law to stop people saying things, even though they are palpably untrue, then God help us. I do not favor a law against Holocaust denial in the EU or in Britain either. It is one thing to incite hatred and another to express views, however disagreeable, on historic events.[14]
Rudolf Vrba, who had escaped from Auschwitz in April of 1944, was a world-famous eyewitness to the homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz. Vrba confessed during his testimony at Zündel’s trial that his book I Cannot Forgive was “an artistic picture…not a document for the court.” Vrba testified that he had never actually witnessed anybody being gassed at Auschwitz, but had merely heard rumors. Furthermore, Vrba admitted that his written and pictorial descriptions of the Auschwitz crematory were mere guesswork, based on “what I heard it might look like.” Vrba proved to be an unreliable witness who could only cite hearsay evidence of the so-called Holocaust.[9]
Lipstadt justifies that by claiming that Holocaust revisionists don’t have opinions but mere prejudices, as for instance about Smith on page 215. In essence, she lobbies for the idea that there should not be a freedom to express prejudices:
In his section about Zyklon-B deliveries of his above-mentioned article, Setkiewicz summarizes the origin of the use of Zyklon B at Auschwitz for the purpose of disinfestation. I quote his remarks and complete them where appropriate.
Wow! So let me get that straight: Because we revisionists insist on an intellectual, rational, evidence-based, reasoned investigation of the reliability of witness testimony, we turn irrationalism into our god – because that’s what apotheosis means! And I thought I was agnostic, but if Dr. Lipstadt says so, I must be wrong – of course! Who needs any other proof!
A few of the witnesses were also researchers after their own fashion, such as Polina Savchenko, "who had a passionate interest in the history of the Shoah" (p. 165), or Adolf Wislowski, who "gathered articles relating to the killing of the Jews" (p. 139), which can only have influenced their testimony.
While the bloggers’ early chapters are mainly devoted to regurgitating the contents of standard books and document collections, the subsequent chapters contain more original material. In particular, the final two chapters, which deal with mass graves and cremation, are without question the most detailed treatment of these topics in the orthodox literature. The bloggers – or rather Roberto Muehlenkamp, who is the author of the chapters in question – deserve great credit for acknowledging these essential issues. In this, they stand head and shoulders above other traditionalist holocaust scholars who have written on the Reinhardt camps.
According to the first draft Shn-1[25] there were four mobile (transportable) crematorium ovens:
The most surprising thing is nevertheless the fact that, while the supposed gas chamber of Crematorium III, for access, required approximately twenty minutes of mechanical ventilation, while that of "Bunker 2", which was not equipped with any ventilation installation at all, could be entered immediately after the doors were opened:
In the mid-1990s Holocaust revisionism began to reach new audiences through the Internet. Until that time most revisionism was largely confined to various small-run newsletters and journals and books published and distributed by a handful of organizations and individuals. The Internet opened new doors and the ability to reach a much larger audience. Starting in various newsgroups and alt.revisionism in particular, revisionists got to voice their opinions on the Holocaust story. Far from achieving the hoped for open debate, revisionists found themselves victims of character assassination and ad hominem attacks.
So much for the publishing context. From the perspective of 2014, much more can be gained from a contemplation of what Peter Novick, who died in 2012 after publishing no further books, had to say on his subject these fourteen years ago. It is, indeed, telling, if only on the score of how Novick’s fears have been borne out. This is because, despite Novick’s concerns, and Finkelstein’s numerous (he has continued publishing, most vigorously) alarums, the prominence of The Holocaust appears to me to have grown, at least in terms of media, academic, and even legal “noise,” including enactment and enforcement of laws punishing “Holocaust denial” and even “historical revisionism.”
[17] Turley, Mark, “Genocide at Nuremberg,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 1, No. 3, Winter 2009; see also Taylor, Telford, The Anatomy of the Nuremberg Trials: A Personal Memoir, New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1992, p. 248.
Leuchter took forensic samples from the masonry of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at the visited sites and a control sample from the delousing facility at Birkenau. The samples were analyzed by an independent laboratory in the United States. The laboratory found no significant ferrocyanide compound traces in the samples taken from the alleged homicidal gas chambers, but the samples from the walls of the disinfection chamber had heavy concentrations of the ferrocyanide compounds. Leuchter concluded that this result would be impossible if the alleged homicidal gas chambers had been repeatedly exposed to hydrogen-cyanide gas.
But Item (a), causing the offender to desist from attacks on whomever or whatever the defamer wishes to protect, can backfire badly through various mechanisms, including arousing in the victim a desire to avenge the defamation by manifesting exactly the reaction he knows unmistakably the defamer wishes to discourage. Where once the offender—say, someone who expresses a disbelief in the full authenticity of most claims for Holocaust reparations payments—might have doubted, disagreed with, or disapproved of one or two sensitive, but minor points in the ideology or myth the defamer wishes to defend, the defamation attracts from its victim a greatly increased level of attention and zeal to the entire program that the defamer is seen to be protecting. Seeking more points on which to get back at his (typically remote, usually anonymous) detractor, the defamed party might, in the case just cited, expand his animus from mere fraudulent reparations claims to the underlying historical claims for the event itself (the Holocaust, in this case), discovering and promoting the growing forensics-based debunking of major aspects (e.g., gas chambers) of the Holocaust legend that has been so carefully and successfully nurtured and propagated these 65 years, now.
Each time I had come away with a sense of sheer horror at the spectacle of this horde of my compatriots and their dependents camping in luxury amid the ruins of a shattered national community, ignorant of the past, oblivious to the abundant evidences of tragedy all around them, inhabiting the same sequestered villas that the Gestapo and SS had just abandoned, and enjoying the same privileges, flaunting their silly supermarket luxuries in the face of a veritable ocean of deprivation, hunger and wretchedness, setting an example of empty materialism and cultural poverty before a people desperately in need of spiritual and intellectual guidance.[21]
Air-photo evidence also indicates that the massive deforestation necessary to cremate 870,000 bodies never took place around Treblinka. Thomas Kues writes:
Casablanca. 1943. The Big Three. They didn’t start the war, nor the Holocaust. But they brought on the greatest part of both.
Today, in 2006, that is, twenty-six years later, I maintain that sentence in full. It had not been inspired by any political or religious sympathy or antipathy whatsoever. It had its ground in certified facts that had begun to be brought to light, on the one hand, by Maurice Bardèche in 1948 and 1950 in his two books on the Nuremberg trial and, on the other hand, by Paul Rassinier who, also in 1950, published his Le Mensonge d’Ulysse (Ulysses’s Lie) (See The Holocaust Story and the Lies of Ulysses, Costa Mesa, California, Institute for Historical Review, 1990, XVIII-447 p.). From 1951 onwards, year after year, our adversaries, so rich, so mighty, so bent on practising all possible forms of repression against historical revisionism, have found themselves progressively forced to admit that we are right on the technical, scientific and historical levels. The victories achieved by Second World War revisionism are many and significant, but, as must sadly be recognised, they still remain, in our day, almost wholly unknown to the greater public. The mighty have done everything to conceal these victories from the world. That is understandable: their domination and sharing of the world between them are in a way grounded in the religion of the alleged “Holocaust” of the Jews. Calling the “Holocaust” into question, publicly disclosing the extraordinary imposture of it all, pulling the masks off the politicians, journalists, historians, academics and people of the churches, clans and coteries who, for more than sixty years, have been preaching falsehoods whilst all the time casting anathema on the unbelievers, amounts to a perilous adventure. But, as will be seen here, despite the repression, time seems in the end to be on the revisionists’ side.
In every chapter there is a statement by some witnesses, usually a paragraph long. So, what do they have to offer in the fight against the calumny of Holocaust denial?
There is little indication that German Jews, or other Jews, were incarcerated to protect them from mob violence: such mob violence as occurred in Germany, as in Kristallnacht, appears to have been choreographed by government officials. This has to be contrasted to the several references to potential lynchings and vigilantism that helped spawn the Japanese internment. On the other hand, there is evidence, and especially pertinent to the deportation of the Hungarian Jews, that the evacuation of Jewish populations was done not only to further a racialist agenda but also due to national security and military concerns, since it was assumed throughout the Nazi hierarchy that Jews would betray the war effort “just because they were Jews.”
A version of an article that appeared in The American Almanac and which was made available by The New Federalist newspaper online on 6th July 1998 had this to say about the context of the first Israeli trial: ‘No one could foresee in 1986 that, three and a half years, four years onwards, the Soviet Union would collapse, and the entire communist regimes in Eastern Europe would collapse, as happened, and make it possible, to get this material [the new evidence from the Soviet Union archives]’.
Although seldom mentioned in the press, numerous eyewitnesses have reported that they did not see any evidence of genocide in the German concentration camps. One of the first to dispute reports of German genocide was Paul Rassinier. Rassinier was a French professor of history who was arrested during the war for passive resistance activities, which included helping to smuggle Jews into neutral Switzerland. Rassinier stated that although he suffered greatly during the war in the Buchenwald and Dora Concentration Camps, he never saw any evidence of homicidal gas chambers nor any program to exterminate Jews. After reading sensationalized accounts that he knew were false, Rassinier felt it was his ethical duty to tell the truth about the camps and refute the false claims being made in the world’s media.
This article documents only a small portion of the absurdities, inconsistencies and outright lies of the testimony of self-styled Sonderkommandos. Similar to other eyewitnesses to the so-called Holocaust, the putative surviving Sonderkommandos have failed to provide credible evidence that Germany built and operated homicidal gas chambers to conduct a program of genocide against European Jewry during World War II.
In this reconstruction, the air-extraction duct is placed too high, and also the connection opening to the “gas chamber” is placed too high. The original drawings display in fact that these openings were located almost at floor level (see Document 2, D, D1, and Document 37).
Friends tell me this is an insult. I think maybe it's something more subtle. I'm being compared to one of the great innovators in the Judeo-Christian tradition. Wanders to and fro in the earth and goes up and down in it? All right. Maybe I see what he's getting at. There's a whole world down there I didn't know existed. Dr. Littell's thoughtful observations on my character and movements illuminate the learning gap that exists between highly educated, professional Holocaust scholars on the one hand and ex-concrete contractors on the other.
“Alle Demokratien haben eine Basis, einen Boden. Für Frankreich ist das 1789. Für die USA die Unabhängigkeitserklärung. Für Spanien der spanische Bürgerkrieg. Nun, für Deutschland ist das Auschwitz. Es kann nur Auschwitz sein. Die Erinnerung an Auschwitz, das ‘nie wieder Auschwitz’, kann in meinen Augen das einzige Fundament der neuen Berliner Republik sein.”
In 2011, an important article was published by Piotr Setkiewicz, director of the Research Center at the Auschwitz Museum, which bears the title “The Supply of Materials to the Crematoria and Gas Chambers at Auschwitz: Coke, Wood, Zyklon.” His exposition far surpasses all previous discussions on the topic by orthodox Holocaust historians (especially the rather frivolous one by van Pelt 2002), and also raises what appear to be certain not-insignificant problems. It therefore deserves to be examined more carefully.
Finally, a defense provided for the powerless underlings who constitute upwards of ninety percent of the muscle of every army or otherwise violence-based suasive force, the defense of “orders from above” was likewise arbitrarily suspended for the accuseds, though after the tribunals, it was hastily restored to the codes by which subordinates in the triumphant armed forces might defend themselves in tribunals as yet unestablished. No matter if you faced discipline, transfer to the dreaded Eastern Front, being broken in rank, or even the firing squad for insubordination, if you followed (or could not prove you refused to follow) those orders to do things of which you were accused, you were guilty.
The diaries of Avraham Tory and Herman Kruk indicate that the Vievis camp served as a major destination and/or transit point for Jews deported to the East: First in 1942 Jews from the Warthegau district were sent there via Chełmno, and then in early 1943 Dutch Jews reached the camp via Auschwitz and Sobibór. Many of these Jews were apparently employed in the construction of a highway between Vilna and Kovno. This brings to mind the following passage from Himmler's speech in Bad Tölz on 23 November 1942:
There is, in consequence, no such thing today meriting any such label as “Holocaust history.” The only part of this ever-so-lamentable iceberg that is to be seen in the light of public—and legal—acceptability at this time seventy years after the time of the events is the looming edifice of very interested confabulations erected in the service of a number of very conspicuous agendas of powers-that-be. Beneath the occluding waves of censorship and moral disapprobation lurks the vastly greater part of the elusive truth, unexplored but for the pathetic, underfunded, deliberately hampered and deafeningly condemned efforts of tiny, beleaguered bands of “Holocaust revisionists,” perhaps, gentle reader, including your very self.
The most significant competition to the JHR at the time was the new publication of Willis Carto, The Barnes Review (TBR). While TBR always looked nice and was published on time, the articles covered a very wide array of subjects, from antiquity to the modern day. Again, cutting-edge Holocaust revisionism rarely was featured in its pages. In fact, TBR did not publish an issue entirely dedicated to the Holocaust until 2001. The articles were generally written by a small cadre of Carto loyalists who were far from the cutting edge of what was happening in revisionist research at the time. Since the split with the IHR in 1994, most key figures in the revisionist movement sided (at least initially) with the IHR and were rarely if ever mentioned, never mind published, in the pages of TBR.
I may also point out that 20 million is not the ceiling of death-toll estimates. For instance, an article of Sept. 21, 1992, from Germany’s most prestigious daily newspaper, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (p. 13), illustrates in a very useful manner the kind of topic we are dealing with and the problems that are related to it. The title of the article translates to “Traces of the Crime; Shoes, Shoes, even Children’s Shoes.” It is a report written by a student about his visit to the Stutthof concentration camp not far from Danzig, in postwar Poland, that has been turned into a museum. The author, in his fourth sentence, states that he cannot imagine what an extermination camp might look like and talks of, quote, “installations in which ‘6 million Jews and a total of 26 million detainees […] were killed,’” unquote. So here we have a combination of the general 20 million victims plus six million Jews.
Heschel's theological viewpoints are profoundly shaped by the assumption that the traditional Holocaust story is an unquestionable fact. She emphasizes that "the Nazi regime carried out its genocide of the Jews" during "the six years of its existence," and was "deeply moved" by her German friends' "understanding of the enormity of German crimes."[16] And of course, she firmly believes the Germans murdered Jews in "gas chambers" with Zyklon B gas.[17] Taking a quote from her father, Heschel writes that "Auschwitz is in our [the Jewish people's] veins."[18]
Version HB-2 is by and large congruent with the later versions, which means that Bischoff’s translation must have been faithful to the original. On the other hand HB-2 contains a couple of passages which were eliminated in HB-7 and HB-8, and some passages which appear in the later versions are lacking here. Reckendrees[15] ventures the opinion that Bischoff and Hers took one of the later versions to Holland and made certain changes when they translated the text into English, but this thesis is not particularly convincing. In all likelihood the English version (HB-2) is a translation of the lost first draft (HB-1) and therefore the oldest known version of the Prisoner’s Report. Probably in 1946 the British handed over a copy of this report to the Russians, who later forwarded the document to Sachsenhausen.[16]
One of the most popular and well-researched books ever written on the “Holocaust” is IBM and the Holocaust, by investigative journalist Edwin Black. This book asks whether IBM (International Business Machines) was knowingly involved in the so-called Holocaust. Black concludes that IBM was knowingly involved, stating that his book “tells the story of IBM’s conscious involvement—directly and through its subsidiaries—in the Holocaust, as well as its involvement in the Nazi war machine that murdered millions of others throughout Europe.”[1]
The appendix to this publication lists “54 books” which the IJA claims “falsifies the horrible truth of Nazi crimes.”[7] The titles and authors listed in the report are of unique interest to the continued development of this book’s [The Prohibition of “Holocaust Denial” - Ed.] theme, in that a significant number of individuals cited were later prosecuted under hastily improvised Holocaust denial laws in France and Germany. Thus, the recommendations contained in this early report, initially drafted in Great Britain, may be regarded as a blueprint designed to encourage the future prosecution of Holocaust revisionists. Among the numerous individuals and titles mentioned in the report may be found:
In regard to David Irving, the harassment campaign against him continued after he lost his libel suit. For example, Irving spent over a year in jail in Austria from 2005-2006 for expressing his views on the so-called Holocaust. Publishers and bookstore owners are still afraid to promote and sell his books for fear of the backlash from Zionist organizations. Of course, some people will still call you an anti-Semite for mentioning these facts; they claim that Zionist groups and organizations could not possibly have such power. Unfortunately, as David Irving made clear in his lawsuit, Zionist organizations do have such power.[27]
UN Russian Federation representative Vitaly Churkin hinted that this is what is behind Russia’s support of the 2007 United Nations Resolution condemning "Holocaust denial": "[M]ember States were bound to include in that condemnation attempts to revise the history of the Second World War and the merits of those who took up arms to fight the Nazis. Any attempt to make heroic the henchmen of fascism must be rejected."[61]
The centerpiece of any factual account of what happened or did not happen at the Auschwitz and Birkenau camps should be the discussion of the gas chambers, alleged or real. This topic is, of course, linked with that of the crematoria, so much so that the reader at large often confuses one with the other. Whereas for decades many authors maintained the belief that the crematoria were built specifically for the purpose of implementing the Holocaust, van Pelt’s opinion is not as blunt.
Shortly after the Wehrmacht had occupied the Ukrainian city of Lemberg (30 June 1941), a work camp for Jews was set up on Yanovska street. At the Nuremberg tribunal, the Soviet prosecution claimed that this facility had simultaneously served as a “death camp” where huge numbers of prisoners had been murdered. When the Red Army approached Lemberg in spring 1944, the SS allegedly ordered the mass graves to be opened and the bodies of the victims to be burned on huge pyres. The bones that survived the cremation were subsequently crushed and either buried or scattered on the territory of the camp. This is the official version of the events based on the investigations of the Extraordinary State Commission (ESC) and the testimony of surviving Jewish inmates. The “bone mill” allegedly discovered after the arrival of the Red Army was repeatedly mentioned by the Soviet Prosecution in Nuremberg. Our research upon this question was prompted by three historical photographs of this mill which can be found on the Website of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM) and elsewhere.[1]
Nevertheless, for F. Müller, the supposed "area of flat concrete" was located exclusively "in the courtyard inside Crematorium V"[219], while Venezia places it in the courtyard of Crematorium III. In reality, such an "area of flat concrete" never existed, either in the courtyard of Crematorium V or in that of Crematorium III: of the latter there does not exist any trace in the American aerial photographs of Birkenau of 1944, in particular, in those, very clear, taken on 31 May 1944[220], nor are there any architectural remains in situ.
By the mere fact that the men who allegedly directed this “gas chamber” process and operated the engines that generated the carbon monoxide contradict each other on the important issue of what type of engine was used, is consistent with the Revisionist hypothesis that these testimonies are unreliable. By the mere fact that these “eyewitnesses” produced such divergent testimony on a murder weapon that they should have known about, witnessed, observed and examined very closely for an extended period of time, lends further credence to the Revisionist view that their testimonies on this matter are false, and these “gas chambers” never existed.
The capacity of the Auschwitz/Birkenau crematories has also been exaggerated by proponents of the official Holocaust story. The crematories of Auschwitz/Birkenau had muffles with doors 1.97 feet in width and height, and were meant to cremate only one corpse at a time without casket. The full incineration of a single corpse took about an hour.[16] If one considers that the furnace had to be cleaned daily from ash and cinders, a coke-fired crematory could be operated for a maximum of only about 20 hours per day.[17]
Richard Goldstone was chosen by the United Nations to head its fact-finding commission into the Gaza attack by Israel of 2008 because he was renowned as: (a) a fair-minded jurist who fearlessly pronounced verdicts in strict accordance with the evidence available; and (b) a devout Jew who had palpably demonstrated an affection for Israel. He and his three committee members produced the famous Goldstone Report, in which human-rights abuses of the most terrible kind were adduced against both Israel and the Hamas Party that is identified by most observers as Israel’s opponent (or target) in the staggeringly unequal “contest.”
To have identified the victims [of the Holocaust] as Jews would have validated the notion of ethnicity, a concept contrary to Marxist ideology.
Efforts to bring perpetrators in Polish camps to justice were largely unsuccessful. Czesław Gęborski, director of the camp at Lamsdorf, was indicted by the Polish authorities in 1956 for wanton brutality against the German prisoners. Gęborski admitted at his trial that his only goal in taking the job was “to exact revenge” on the Germans. On October 4, 1945, Gęborski ordered his guards to shoot down anyone trying to escape a fire that engulfed one of the barracks buildings; a minimum of 48 prisoners were killed that day. The guards at Lamsdorf also routinely beat the German prisoners and stole from them. German prisoners in Lamsdorf died of hunger and diseases in droves; guards recalled scenes of children begging for scraps of food and crusts of bread. Gęborski was found not guilty despite strong evidence of his criminal acts.[19]
In Germany, the killing operations of “euthanasia” had been carried out by means of carbon monoxide (CO), however in Russia this gas was not availabe, at least not in the usual gas cylinders. Transporting them from Germany to Russia (and the return of empties) would have been impractical under the prevailing circumstances. In this situation, it appears that Nebe (Fig. 6) had thought about two “alternative” killing methods: a) by explosives and b) by exhaust gas. It was apparantly an “isolated decision”, for nothing is known of any discussion, neither with his entourage in Minsk nor his chemical experts in Berlin[22] . This lack of consultation and advice can be explained by the circumstances: the distance between Nebes’s quarters in Smolensk and his experts in Berlin, and security reasons. Oddly enough it did not occur to him that the wood-gas generators, which were extensively used in Germany, would have constituted an available mobile source of CO. Most probably the chemists of the KTI would have opted for this solution, although certain modifications of the wood-gas generator might have been necessary and would have caused a delay – and Nebe had to act under pressure of time.
The Einsatzgruppen trial that took place in Nuremberg from September 1947 to April 1948 forms the basis for the allegations that the Einsatzgruppen and other German forces murdered millions of Jews and other people in the “Holocaust by bullets.” The defendants in this trial were 24 commanding and senior officers of the Einsatzgruppen.[18]
Both installations were essentially industrial. Its peak population appears to have been about 75,000, while the peak population of Auschwitz seems to have been about 150,000 counting the companion installation at Birkenau but not counting the numerous “free” workers who also worked there.
Soviet POW´s arriving in Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp (Fall 1941)
Where erroneous terminology is concerned, Venezia, repeating what he had already stated in 1995[38], states that the inmates, at Auschwitz, were called "pieces" or “parts” (e.g., of a machine or assembly) (Stücke)[39].
PART III Dealing with Holocaust and genocide denial
"The final great wave came in early 1945, when the Nazis shipped a good part of the population of Auschwitz to Belsen's already overcrowded barracks. And with these prisoners came the typhus bug. With little or no food or potable water, and typhus running rampant, Belsen became an uncontrollable nightmare of death and depravity. Yet the transports still arrived, and the population of the camp swelled to 60,000 by the first week of April."[58]
6) The city of Krakow is located only some 50 km north-east of Auschwitz.[97] The railway line 532e from Krakow to Auschwitz, not following a straight line (but making first a slight detour to the southeast), had a length of 68.2 km and according to schedule took 2 hours and 41 minutes to travel (from November 1942 onward).[98] In 1940 Distrikt Krakau had a Jewish population somewhat in excess of 200,000.[99] 3,000 Jews from Mielec were transferred to the Lublin district in March 1942.[100] According to Yitzhak Arad, over 140,000 Jews were deported from the Krakow district to Bełżec between July 7, 1942 and November 15, 1942.[101] Some thousands of Jews from smaller localities in the district are alleged to have been shot rather than deported.[102]
Among other euthanasia sibs (ﬁrst circulated in November 1940) was a “rumour that doctors in military hospitals in France have been instructed to make death easy for incapacitated soldiers and airmen”. Extra bite was given to this sib by the suggestion (intended to promote inter-service resentment) that in the case of infantry the loss of one limb would amount to incapacity, leading to euthanasia, whereas this “was not to be considered incapacity in the case of Air Force or SS troops”.[26]
Source: The film “Todeslager Sachsenhausen“, DEFA 1946.
The Holocaust story has also been used to justify the creation of the State of Israel. Simon Wiesenthal writes:[3]
An image haunts our contemporaries, that of the mounds of bodies discovered at the liberation of the German concentration camps in 1945. In that dreadful, fixating image they think they see proof of the inhumanity of the “Nazis” and, as a result, they believe by instinct that the revisionists are basically individuals who have taken up the task of rehabilitating Adolf Hitler. I wish these uninitiated, who, at the outset, close their hearts and minds to revisionism and let themselves be carried by their emotions, would start making an effort to reflect on the reality that lay behind the photographs and films in which they believe they see the harrowing proof of “Nazi atrocities.”
It goes without saying that destroying a large building for the sake of killing a number of persons isn't exactly a rational way of committing mass murder, all the more so since the Germans lacked housing due to the Allies' bombing campaign and would therefore never have considered such lunacy. This story has a parallel in a tale told by a defendant during a German trial held some six years later, which is the story of the alleged genesis of the so-called "gas vans." According to this, a German Chemist named Albert Widmann employed at the German Institute for Criminological Technology in Berlin (Kriminaltechniches Institut, KTI) had received orders in 1939 to find a poisonous chemical which could be used to kill severely mentally disabled individuals in the course of the euthanasia program. He settled for bottled carbon monoxide. Later he is said to have gotten involved in the development of "gas vans" as well. In 1967 he was tried on both charges by the Stuttgart District Court.[11] The German newsmagazine Der Spiegel reported about this trial:[12]
[29] Graf, Jürgen, The Giant with Feet of Clay: Raul Hilberg and His Standard Work on the “Holocaust”, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses & Dissertations Press, 2001, p. 106.
A week or two later Buergenthal was moved to the children’s hospital in camp D. Buergenthal thus confirms what Holocaust revisionists know; numerous children were also “lucky” and survived the alleged selection processes at Birkenau.[14]
The Declaration further states that governments ‘must’ encourage civil society ‘to be vigilant to’ dissident writing on the Holocaust and ‘to openly condemn it’. One wonders what authority the promoters of the Declaration imagine themselves to possess that could justify this call for active intervention against a school of writers on a particular historical controversy. The wording of the Declaration suggests that these promoters see themselves as possessing superior authority to governments! the Declaration also takes it upon itself to tell the United Nations Organisation what it should do.
“It was in those days of pan Olek’s sickness, during visits from his numerous comrades, that I first discovered the Fascists had begun mass extermination – not only of prisoners but also of whole transports of people. Apparently the main extermination effort had shifted to Birkenau. They’d set up a ‘bath-house’ with pipes and a ‘shower’ grid and turned it into a gas chamber. People would be sent inside as if for a shower, then locked in and gassed. […] Fires cremating corpses after gassings in the ‘bath-house’ burned day and night at Birkenau. The fires and gas chambers were serviced by ‘Sonderkommandos’ [‘Special Units’ – trans.], specially formed from prisoners held outside the camp. No one knew exactly who they were.” (p. 97)
Professor James B. Whisker found an altogether different inspiration for elements in the Third Reich, Gnostic Christian heresies. In his Philosophy of Alfred Rosenberg, subtitled “Origins of the National Socialist Myth,” Whisker focuses on Rosenberg’s interest in the Cathar heresy as the means by which Christianity could be de-Judaized of what was regarded as Jewish elements introduced by the apostle Paul. For Rosenberg however what was also required was de-Romanization. Whisker comments that both the Roman and the Jewish minds had made religion into “legal formalities,” whereas for the Germanic mind none of this was required. Martin Luther, although a folk hero, had maintained a Jewish outlook through the influence of Paul.[55] There had been a growing movement during the 18th and 19th centuries among German Protestant theologians to remove the Old Testament from Christian theology, and Rosenberg maintained this legacy.[56] One of the precursors of National Socialism, Richard Wagner’s English son-in-law, Houston Stewart Chamberlain, racial theorist and Germanophile already well-known in Wilhelmine Germany, was among those who expounded the notion of the “Aryan Jesus,” as a Galilean, not a Jew.[57] Chamberlain was a seminal influence on Rosenberg’s thinking. Although Rosenberg’s influence on Hitler and the Third Reich as the “philosopher of National Socialism,” is debatable, his aim of creating a “German national religion” based on Protestantism was in accord with Hitler’s aim of a unified German national church, as shown by Steigmann-Gall in The Holy Reich.
What the custodians of orthodoxy fear above all is an open debate on television. In an interview accorded Le Monde on 4 August 2006, when it was put to P. Vidal-Naquet that a proposal to convene a meeting of historians on the Shoah would risk providing a forum for negationists, he agreed wholeheartedly:
Working virtually 15 hours per day for over a year, often never leaving his basement for days at a time, eating at his computer screen, Black pursued his obsessive quest for this story. During his labors, “Holocaust” victims were never out of his sight or mind. Black writes (p. 6):
As the reader will recall, the first draft wrongly claimed that the new crematorium had been put into operation in March 1943. This misstatement appears in the following versions as well:[36]
“The deportation of Jews was routinely stopped to ensure that supplies flowed to the front but no military action was ever suspended to ensure that the shipment of Jews to the gas chambers continued without interruption. When the shortage of labour in the Reich became acute, the Jews were perceived as a valuable resource. The Germans occupied Hungary in March 1944 partly to get their hands on Jewish labour; military exigencies drove anti-Jewish policy, not the other way round.” (p. xxxiii)
The clear purpose of the Holocaust miniseries was to bolster Zionism. In Holocaust, the character of Anielewicz, an especially Semitic-looking Jew with a thousand-yard stare who identifies himself as a Zionist and speaks of “the Zionists” as the resistance to the Holocaust, plays the part of a divine messenger, informing the Jews of their destiny. Anielewicz tells the council in the Warsaw Ghetto what is happening and what they must do. What they must do is to take up arms. The Warsaw Ghetto Uprising thus becomes a metaphor for the State of Israel.
Various remembrances of Bradley have stressed the achievements made possible by the irenic side of this quixotic soldier. Yes, by not making the Jews as a collective the target of his revisionist efforts he was able to gain considerable purchase with the student editors who enabled him to place hundreds of his campus ads in their papers. And yes, his good nature and his eschewal of racial concerns enabled him to win the cooperation of able revisionists around the world in establishing the Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust, and its spinoffs such as its powerful website, as well as the short-lived journal The Revisionist, which paved the way for Inconvenient History.
Dramatic wording, to be sure. But we now understand the likely meanings of ‘liquidation’ and ‘radical solution’ (see Part 1).And we have yet more evidence that vernichten is not mass murder—would the Jews really kill every German simply by remaining unopposed, and living amongst them? Of course not. But they could destroy the character and integrity of traditional German society. The third paragraph is rarely cited by traditionalists; it too clearly indicates a systematic deportation process, including potentially long-term confinement. This is inconsistent with a high-speed, industrialized scheme of gassing and mass murder.
The acts of the German captors and their allies as to their victims is likewise invidiously described and elucidated in the war-crimes trials that continue, sporadically now, to the present day. Medical attentions aimed either at the well-being of the persons receiving them, or in many cases at protecting the camp populations at large from pestilence, are transmogrified in officially sanctioned testimony as being torture, sadistic experimentation, or even murder, as when delousing showers are repurposed to accomplish genocide through the injection of poison gases into gas chambers through shower heads as the hapless victims discover their bars of “soap” are made of stone. Zyklon B, a well-known pesticide used for killing the lice that spread typhus among the inmates, takes on the role of the killing agent itself, through the undeniable fact that its active ingredient is potentially lethal to human beings.
Today, though, the more commonly accepted estimates are much closer to the low end than the high. The current Croatian government seems to accept a figure of 83,000 total deaths. The US Holocaust Memorial Museum claims that “the Ustasa regime murdered between 77,000 and 99,000 people in Jasenovac between 1941 and 1945.” Of these, some 12,000 to 20,000 are claimed to have been Jews. Still, the USHMM is not very sanguine about their own estimates:
”In the gas chamber of the crematorium, 285,000 persons could be annihilated during the period of its existence from April 1943 until April 1945.”
“Aktion 1005 was a highly classified operation. Orders and reports were given and received verbally, and no German documents were saved to provide evidence. The SS, which was responsible for the operation, did everything in its power to prevent a leak of information on the site…
• Adam Szyper (4 ans, compté 2 fois), Tolla Richer (12 ans) et Christine Wolman (14 ans). Le Yad Vashem les reprend en affirmant qu’ils ont été internés à Lodz puis au camp de Stutthof (il n’a pas jugé bon de mentionner Auschwitz !) et enfin Theresienstadt où ils furent tous trois libérés.
“There is an incongruity in the creation of a sanitary camp a few hundred meters from the four crematoria, where, according to the official historiography, persons were exterminated on a vast scale... The plan to construct a large hospital section in the BAIII thus shows that the crematoria were constructed solely for cremation, without homicidal gas chambers[152], since the SS wished to “conserve” the labor force from their concentration camp”[153].
Crowell's analysis is particularly apt in critiquing the "convergence of evidence" model borrowed from evolutionary biology, in which multiple strands of facts allegedly "converge" on a conclusion. But as Crowell notes, "no competent historian works that way." For if historians have corroborating documentary evidence for a conclusion from a high-level document, they look for further substantiation from mid and low-level documents in order to avoid an argument with anomalous gaps in its support.. On the other hand, if they have merely eyewitness confirmation or a vague corroboratory reference, they search for higher level evidence before drawing hard and fast conclusions. The difference between this approach and conventional Holocaust historiography is striking. As Crowell notes: "The absence of evidence in a continuous hierarchy for gassing is a serious problem, just as an evolutionary biologist would be dumbfounded if he or she found entire geological strata in which there was no evidence of life at all. That is the proper analogy for the magnitude of the problem faced here."
The verdict and judgment did not sit well with Faurisson’s detractors, who responded with new strategies aimed at influencing French lawmakers. Subsequently, a parliamentary initiative designed to outlaw any public expression of criticism or questioning of the Holocaust was introduced before the French Assembly.
“Of course, I was there asking people if they knew my parents and if they knew what had happened to them. And those from Theresienstadt told me, ‘Your parents were sent from Theresienstadt to Auschwitz, to the gas chambers. They’re not coming back.’ And that’s how I found out.” (p. 290)
These statements are confusing. First, Nadjari claims that their first task was to receive the victims (implying in the undressing room) where he spilled the beans to those who were doomed to die, while playing dumb with the rest. But what were they doing there? Only those unfit for work were sent to the crematorium. Also, the victims appear crying upon hearing about the shower, but at the same time remain ignorant as they enter. This does not make any sense, and as we will soon see the details of this story are different in the second manuscript.
Ending his section on Holocaust revisionism with a fair critique, Rollins concludes that, “The falsehoods I have pointed out suggest the possibility that some revisionists aim not to set the record straight, but to bring the record into alignment with their own preconceptions. If ‘revisionism’ means bringing history into accord with the facts, as Harry Elmer Barnes put it, then some of what passes for revisionism is not revisionism at all.” Fair enough. As a revisionist, I might say the same thing. But I wouldn’t condescendingly aver that revisionists have intentionally duped “lovers of historical truth,” like Rollins does. I am nonetheless grateful to Rollins, however, for conducting the kind of balanced, critical scholarship that revisionists must do in order to reestablish themselves as a credible alternative to the Holocausters. Indeed, he helps us clarify a goal: in order to refine our arguments and cultivate important new discoveries, we need an intelligent, critical venue in which revisionist scholars can further develop the field; like any other academic discipline, we need a medium through which we can revise old theories and explore new ones. With Inconvenient History, that’s just what we’re trying to do. And I’m sure Mr. Rollins would approve.
I personally arranged on orders received from Himmler in May 1941 the gassing of 2 million persons between June/July 1941 and the end of 1943 during which time I was commandant of Auschwitz.”
This would mean that the air trapped in the gas chambers would not sustain the lives of the people locked up in them for more than 5 minutes at most. After that the air would be so low in oxygen and so polluted that no human being could exist in it. The document claims, however, that the people locked up in these gas chambers had lived for more than 3 hours! This had even been closely monitored with a stopwatch, which the witness fortunately had with him, even though exhaust gas from a diesel engine had been used as a lethal agent for the last half hour.
The present paper will look in a more-detailed fashion into how Danuta Czech handled the sources she had at her disposal to come to the claims she made in her Chronicle about the number of Auschwitz deportees allegedly killed in gas chambers. I will focus here exclusively on deportees sent to the camp with major deportation transports organized by Germany’s Reichssicherheitshauptamt (RSHA, Reich Security Main Office), the National-Socialist equivalent to the current U.S. Department of Homeland Security, so to speak. A considerable number of deportees from these transports are said to have been sent, without registration, straight from the railway ramp to the gas chambers. I will establish in this paper how Czech makes that determination based on the evidence adduced. I will not discuss the many claimed gassings of usually smaller batches of inmates which had been properly admitted to and registered in the camp but which are said to have met their gruesome end in the gas chambers later due to some more-or-less-arbitrary decision by the SS administration or some SS physician. The gassings resulting from these so-called “selections” among regular prisoners have been thoroughly discussed elsewhere by Carlo Mattogno, where he shows how the extant documentation in many cases clashes with claims of mass murder.[6]
Members of the Soviet Investigating Commission at Sachsenhausen (May/June 1945). Source: GARF 7021-104-10
It is obvious that, by accepting the reality of the extermination of the Hungarian Jews during Spring-Summer of 1944, due to their huge inflow in a short period, the case of 3,000 victims had to happen every day. Just to supply evidence, from May 14 to June 7, 1944, 289,357 Jews started from Hungary in the direction of Auschwitz in a period of 24 days, on average more than 12,000 per day. Taking into consideration that, from the orthodox perspective, during the period mentioned, the number of the alleged-gassed persons was around 70%, about (12,000 x 0.7 =) 8,400 Jews would have been killed every day,[66] and would have had to be gassed in the three crematoria in operation (II, III and V). Therefore, Morgue #1 of Crematoria II and III would have been crowded every day.
Judge Gray further pointed out that even the mainstream historians of the Holocaust admit the remains of Auschwitz offer little evidence for the mass extermination claims: “[The team of Holocaust experts] accept that the physical evidence remaining at the site of Auschwitz provides little evidence to support the claim that gas chambers were operated there for genocidal purposes.”[29]
American military historian Dr. S. P. MacKenzie writes that “callous self-interest and a desire for retribution” motivated the use of forced labor of German prisoners who were sick and malnourished.95 The French journal Figaro wrote that “In certain camps… living skeletons may be seen, almost like those in German concentration camps, and deaths of undernourishment are numerous. We learn that prisoners have been savagely and systematically beaten and that some have been employed in removing mines without protection equipment...”96 Louis Clair wrote of an Orleans camp where the commander received 16 francs per head for food, but spent nine francs for himself, so prisoners were kept starving. A young French soldier wrote of prisoners dying of hunger, sleeping on cold cement floors, without shelter. At a camp in Langres a witness wrote of seeing prisoners beaten with rifle butts and kicked when they broke down through overwork.97 As Bacque has shown, Eisenhower’s idea of an internment camp was nothing so lavish as to include concrete floors. The U.S. camps were fields surrounded by fences, where shelter was whatever internees could dig out of the mud with their hands. Bacque estimates that 167,000 to 314,241 Germans soldiers died under French internment,98 and at least 800,000 under U.S. internment.99
The next day Venezia was sent to Birkenau BIIa camp, where they had to remain in quarantine for forty days. He states that, a few days afterwards,
After The Auschwitz Lie was published, Christophersen received thousands of letters and calls. He wrote in regard to these letters and calls:
Remark: Still today in, 2006, the greater public persist in believing that, as the media tirelessly suggest, the sources for the study of the gas chambers are innumerable and unquestionable. At the Sorbonne symposium of 1982, A. Mayer, like his friend Pierre Vidal-Naquet, could not find words harsh enough for the revisionists; however, six years later, here was an ultra-orthodox historian who had drawn considerably closer to the revisionists’ findings.
Nevertheless, to date jurists have been unable to unanimously agree upon a precise, legally acceptable definition of just what constitutes ‘Holocaust denial” or provide any satisfactory reason as to why an act of denial or questioning of an historical event warrants special legislative and judicial attention.
Also in 1995 there occurred an event so dire for the cause of the official history that it was to be kept hidden for five years; finally disclosed in 2000, even then it was reported with such discretion that still today, in 2012, it remains largely unknown. It involved Jean-Claude Pressac, protégé of the Klarsfelds, the paladin whose praises had been sung by Pierre Vidal-Naquet. The author in 1989 of a huge book in English, Auschwitz: Technique and Operation of the Gas Chambers and, in 1993, of a book in French, Les Crématoires d’Auschwitz, la machinerie du meurtre de masse, J.-C. Pressac, reeling from the crushing humiliation that my lawyer, Eric Delcroix, and I had inflicted on him during his appearance in the XVIIth chamber of the Paris criminal court, where we had subpoenaed him to testify, suddenly resolved to admit, in a piece dated June 15, 1995, that the whole dossier of the official history of the wartime deportations was “rotten” (a word taken from Michel de Boüard) with lies and bound “for the rubbish bins of history.”
It’s why many react strongly against those critically investigating mainstream Holocaust claims. After all, we all saw the bodies, right? These images were taken in camps liberated by the western Allies, primarily Dachau, liberated by the Americans, and Bergen-Belsen, liberated by the British – camps which are today admitted, even by mainstream historians, not to have served as extermination or death camps.
If the current German rulers are truly interested in building a stable democratic society, and one that serves the best interests of the German people, they would allow freedom of debate on the Holocaust issue, and attempt to get at the whole truth. Basing political systems upon demonstrable falsehoods that degrade and exploit the German masses makes for a very politically unstable and volatile situation.
The plans of the basement morgue (Leichenkeller) of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp help us understand the project of the morgue of the new crematorium in Birkenau. Even though the documentation in question always refers to “Leichenkeller”, in the singular,[18] the facility contained de facto three morgues, as shown in the attached plan:
“Mengele and his team of mind and genetic manipulators who experimented and tortured Jews and children in the Nazi concentration camps were behind the creation of the evil-beyond-belief mind control program MK-Ultra which I mentioned earlier in relation to the Bush family, Dick Cheney, Bill Clinton and the experiences of Cathy O’Brien.”
Returning to our story, we again find force being used for unusual purposes. For we have a scene where ten gypsies join a lone gypsy wielding whips and truncheons to force everyone outside into the spring sunshine. One wonders why prisoners must be forced to do this? Naturally we assume spring sunshine is preferable to the inside of a barracks. But maybe they have an intimation of the short march and coming confusion? For they are formed into ranks of five and marched through the gates between electric wires. And near or on the electric wires there are a series of white placards brandishing a death’s head with this caption: “Warning. Danger of death.” And the irony is not lost on Elie, who has been telling us all along they are in a death camp! The gypsies are soon replaced by SS who march the prisoners outside the barbed wire of the camp, and now there is some uncertainty whether this is a march of half an hour or only a few moments before they reach the barbed wire of another camp: Auschwitz! Yes, that’s right. They were in Auschwitz which they left to enter another camp which is also Auschwitz. Elie is obviously confused and I wonder if his editors are so mesmerized by the sanctity of his descriptions there has been no attempt to correct this anomaly. For the obvious correction is that Elie has left Auschwitz for nearby Birkenau, else re-entered Auschwitz through another gate. For he specifically mentions an iron door with the inscription: “Work is liberty!,” claiming this is Auschwitz.[8] But then he confuses his reader again by saying this camp is better than Birkenau! He was at Auschwitz, the SS man with the fleshy lips and the odor of death tells him they are at Auschwitz, they leave Auschwitz and enter… Auschwitz! How did this glaring confusion get past the editors?
In 1981 John Demjanjuk went through a trial to rescind his American citizenship. This resulted in his extradition to Israel in 1986 where he was to stand trial for being “Ivan the Terrible” who it was said operated the diesel gas chambers of Treblinka. Some sources charged Demjanjuk with being responsible for a half-million murders. Soon the numbers would grow even greater with some citing his personal responsibility for upwards of 900,000 murders. The big question was not the plausibility of the alleged crime itself, but rather, was John in fact the Ivan that the prosecution claimed he was?
“Wiesenthal’s aggrandizement of his role in the Eichmann capture is far less disturbing and historiographically significant than another of his inventions. In an attempt to elicit non-Jewish interest in the Holocaust, Wiesenthal decided to broaden the population of victims—even though it meant falsifying history. He began to speak of eleven million victims: six million Jews and five million non-Jews. Holocaust historian Yehuda Bauer immediately recognized that this number made no historical sense. Who, Bauer wondered, constituted Wiesenthal’s five million (p. 8)?”
Leuchter took forensic samples from the alleged gas chambers at the visited sites and a control sample from the delousing facility at Birkenau. The samples were analyzed by an independent laboratory in the United States. The laboratory found no significant ferrocyanide compound traces in the samples taken from the alleged homicidal gas chambers, but the sample from a wall of the Birkenau delousing facility had heavy concentrations of the ferrocyanide compounds. Leuchter concluded that this result would be impossible if the alleged homicidal gas chambers had been repeatedly exposed to hydrogen-cyanide gas.[5]
Milgram was inspired in designing his namesake experiments by his notions of what the Holocaust entailed—people (Germans) consciously administering pain and death to presumably innocent strangers (Jews and others, who in fact outnumbered the Jews). Of course, in wars such as the one in which the worst parts of the Holocaust occurred, people are consciously administering pain, death, and destruction to strangers who have given no previous offense, though from the cockpit of a bomber twenty thousand feet above “the target,” interaction with the victims is absent by quite a distance. And in World War II, the Germans manifestly failed to gain first place in the deadly competition of killing and maiming “the enemy.”
June 29. Former Auschwitz staff member SS Hauptsturmführer Hans Aumeier states in his first declaration to his British captors: “I have no knowledge of gas chambers and during my time no detainee was gassed.” Following this statement, Aumeier is given a questionnaire asking him to provide testimony on “Gassings (with all details), numbers of daily and total victims” as well as a “Confession about own responsibility in case of gassings.”[7]
F.A. Leuchter, R. Faurisson, G. Rudolf, The Leuchter Reports: Critical Edition, 5th ed., Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield 2017. Read it online free of charge, download a free PDF file, or purchase a hard copy at www.HolocaustHandbooks.com.
In order to fully understand the significance of the evidence surveyed in the present article, it is necessary to acquaint oneself with the documented historical background, namely the deportations of Jews from the German-controlled European territories. How many Jews were deported from the different countries, and when? The sections below will clarify this context.
This is a slightly adapted extract of the upcoming book Deliveries of Coke, Wood and Zyklon B to Auschwitz: Neither Proof Nor Trace for the Holocaust by Carlo Mattogno.
While declared a criminal, Kaiser Wilhelm escaped this new “justice” by going into exile in the Netherlands, where Queen Wilhelmina and the Dutch government protected him from extradition.[10] King George V however called Wilhelm “the greatest criminal in history” and British Prime Minister David Lloyd George proposed that the Allies “hang the Kaiser.”[11] By the close of the Second World War, exile was not a choice for the German leadership. The Allies set up a series of trials beginning with the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg with the specific intent of punishing enemy “criminals.”
The following article is a continuation of Thomas Kues's Evidence for the Presence of "Gassed" Jews in the Occupied Eastern Territories, Part 2. Thomas Kues's analysis takes up the revisionist proposal that Jews sent to the "extermination camps" and allegedly gassed there were in fact deloused and then sent away, the vast majority of them to the occupied eastern territories. The camps therefore actually functioned as transit camps. The transit camp hypothesis is in perfect harmony with documented National Socialist Jewish policy as expressed in official and internal reports, documents on the Jewish transports, and even in classified communications between leading SS members.
Many hapless inquirers into the particulars of genocides committed during the Second World War have expressed the opinion that German depredations formed but one of a long and horrible series of genocides going far back into antiquity and extending later into times long after the end of the war. For this, they have been branded “Holocaust deniers” by opponents asserting that at least some of Germany’s supposed genocidal aims somehow constituted unique novelties in the annals of human behavior.
“Every day they killed thousands of people. When they were bringing them into the crematorium, they put them in a large underground room that had numbered hangers on the walls, and they said to them: ‘Now you have to take off your clothes, and each of you place it on a hanger remembering the number, so you can find them when you exit the shower.’ They were telling them this so that they would not suspect what awaited them, but they were all shaking from fear. When they had undressed, a door opened leading to another room – about 8 x 8 meters – and they ordered them to go in. When the first ones entered and saw that there were no showers but merely four empty walls, they realized that their time had come, and they started crying and shouting. The rest, hearing the cries, would not enter, they resisted. Then the Germans beat them mercilessly with a whip, and they had to go in. But as there were too many and they could not all fit inside, they squeezed them to the point that they had to raise their arms up to fit inside; that is because they were always more than a thousand persons, and it was almost impossible to fit them in. In the end, they grabbed the little kids left and threw them above the heads of the adults. When everyone was finally inside, they sealed the door and channeled a poisonous gas into the room, that killed them within three minutes.” (p. 79)
Outdoor livestock carcass cremation seen from the air. The pyres which allegedly burned at Auschwitz, Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka would have dwarfed fires like this and would have blanketed the entire area in smoke. Nothing of that kind can be seen on any of the air photos of Auschwitz.
One would think that after all of the damaging admissions and concessions made by official Holocaust sources, the doctrine itself would have undergone world wide scrutiny, questioning and debunking. Yet, this is not the case, and herein is the enigma that surrounds the Holocaust doctrine. Despite the fact that the orthodox Holocaust story is demonstrably weak, it continues to thrive and flourish. Is this state of affairs solely due the enormous power and influence of the International Jewish-Zionist power elite and the state of Israel?
Between September 19 and October 22, 1942 a total of ten transports departed Theresienstadt (Terezin) bound for Treblinka, while a single transport bound for Auschwitz departed on October 26, 1942; a hiatus in the convoys from Theresienstadt then followed until January 20, 1943.[28]
Of the some 400,000 Hungarian, Polish, Slovakian, French and other Jews transited via Auschwitz in 1944, a considerable portion must have inevitably perished during the catastrophic conditions prevailing during 1944/45, due to disease, malnutrition, overwork, general privations, Allied air raids and bombardment, transports and evacuations under inhumane conditions (including long marches due to the collapse of infrastructure and shortage of fuel), etc. Of those who survived these as well as the hardships immediately following the end of the war, many likely found themselves prisoners behind the Iron Curtain.
During and right after the end of the Second World War, a number of war propaganda movies were filmed with the support or even under the control of the U.S. government. Throughout these propaganda movies, there are many references to the thousands and even millions of victims of National Socialist barbarism – yet none of these films ever single out Jews as the primary victims of a “Holocaust.”
Rather ironically, leading representatives of the Armenian community in Boston accused the ADL of “genocide denial.”[20] Armenian National Committee representative Grace Kehetian Kulegian lambasted the ADL for preaching “tolerance” while practicing “divisiveness and denial.”[21]
Dr. Nicholas Kollerstrom, recently of University College London, is a 21st-century Holocaust victim—perhaps a Holocaust survivor, in that he is alive today and, in respects other than professional, passably well. Of course, he is not a victim of National Socialist racial policies; he is a victim of … how can I say this? Contemporary taboos concerning historical events of the 1940s in Europe? Not too catchy, that. A Jewish plot to destroy freedom of speech in preparation for their takeover of the world? Maybe a bit too catchy, that one. Something in between, then—pick your own poison.
”The mass execution of camp inmates and new transports by the Germans was carried out by hanging, shooting and gassing. As a rule, the shootings occurred in a special ditch in the area of the crematorium behind the outer wall of the camp. In 1941 the Hitlerites began their mass shootings of prisoners on the area chosen for the construction of the crematorium.”
Here are some photos of these slots from the inside and from the outside. So, the entire sophisticated ventilation system did not serve any other purpose than moving air around. Why then was it so complicated? It makes no sense at all! It would have been much easier to simply feed the heated air directly into the shaft going into the chamber, as shown here, and to feed the exhaust pipes directly into the blower, using the blower’s speed to adjust for any needed change in air volume. For now, this entire ventilation system seems to be a nonsensical mystery.
Paul Grubach, in his aforementioned essay ‘The “Nazi Extermination Camp” of Sobibor in the Context of the Demjanjuk Case’, eventually asked ‘What really lies behind this campaign [to “bring to justice” alleged “Nazi war criminals”]?’ Here is his answer: ‘Holocaust revisionism, the theory that the traditional view of the Jewish Holocaust contains lies, exaggerations and other falsehoods, is a serious threat to Zionist power and the German Government that is subservient to Israeli/Zionist interests. Various governments have resorted to “war crimes trials” to combat its phenomenal growth. Indeed, Israel’s former Attorney General, Yitzhak Zamir, publicly admitted that this was one of the major purposes of the Israeli Demjanjuk trial: “At a time when there are those who even deny that the Holocaust ever took place, it is important to remind the world of what a fascist regime is capable of… and in this respect the Demjanjuk trial will fulfil an important function.” In 1993, as the case against Demjanjuk was falling apart, an Israeli prosecutor close to the case [quoted on page 402 of the US Regnery edition of Sheftel’s book] acknowledged a political motive for continuing the campaign. “So the important thing now is at least to prove that Demjanjuk was part of the Nazi extermination machine… otherwise… we will be making a great contribution to the new world-wide movement of those who deny the Holocaust took place.”… The promoters and the beneficiaries of the Holocaust ideology – International Zionism, Israel and the current German Government – want to use a Demjanjuk show trial to fight the phenomenal growth of Holocaust revisionism, a movement that poses a dire threat to the Zionist government in Israel and the government subservient to Zionism in Germany.’
In Twenty-First-Century America, it seems quite misguided to be overly concerned about Nazi book burnings or Nazi human burnings for that matter. Heine, who died in 1856, was not actually concerned about Nazis but rather the immolation of ideas – of diversity of thought. Today actual book burnings are mostly symbolic. In centuries past, the burning of a book might indeed literally “holocaust” an idea, although all copies of certain books most definitely have been confiscated and macerated (pulped) in—that’s right—Germany. In the post-World War-II era, when books can easily and affordably be printed and reprinted, book burnings and censorship rarely have the impact desired.[2] Today, thanks to the Internet, traditional book burnings are generally superfluous.
“In accordance with the plan of the aforementioned hangman Klein, a stationary crematorium was built in 1942 and put into operation in March 1943. Based on a project of camp commandant Sauer, and under his personal leadership, a gas chamber for the mass killing of people with the poisonous substance ’Zyklon A’ – a liquid product containing prussic acid – was installed in the building of the newly constructed crematorium.”
And as for those who we can see have need to mislead us, let us be careful about adopting particular viewpoints contrary to those they advance, for those contrary points of view may very well themselves get no closer to The Truth than the viewpoints we reject. And as for the evidence and interpretations offered in correction, we should take care to grant these messages at least the same fair hearing we granted to those that we heard earlier.
Government spokesman Mr. Latham (the member for Werriwa) had this to say: “Yet a small minority of racists and racist organizations do express and seek to incite racial intolerance and hatred….. We do have the League of Rights and we do have in election campaigns organizations such as Australians Against Further Immigration, which run their campaigns on a racist platform.”[61] An impartial analysis of both the named groups might also find evidence of unjust vilification here too.
Until the end of the war, Bergen-Belsen was not a death camp were Germans deliberately starved to death and murdered prisoners. In fact, it was originally designated as a recuperation camp, or Krankenlager, where sick prisoners were sent to improve their health. It wasn’t such a terrible place until the final days of the war, and there is evidence to prove it. Rose Kahn, a Hungarian Jew, was transported from Auschwitz to Bergen-Belsen in the summer of 1944. Before Auschwitz was abandoned, and Bergen-Belsen was severely overcrowded, she describes Bergen-Belsen as not such a terrible place.
[The former Director of the IHR] revealed another of the IHR’s true agenda items with his warning that acceptance of the Holocaust myth resulted in a radical degeneration of acceptable standards of human behavior and lowering the self-image of White people. These racist tendencies, which the IHR has increasingly kept away from the public spotlight, are part of the extremist tradition to which it is heir.
German leaders announced that precisely because of the German role in the Holocaust, they had to abandon Berlin's pledge to forever renounce the use of military intervention abroad. This so-called humanitarian imperialism, noted author Diana Johnstone, expressed "perfect continuity with the most aggressive traditions of German policy toward the Balkans as practiced by Berlin in two world wars." In particular, the round condemnation of an entire ethnic group (Serbs) was "reminiscent of the pre-war propaganda against the Jews," she wrote.
“Q. With reference to the problem of the treatment of the Jews I have one more question. These matters have been repeatedly discussed here. I would only like to hear your personal attitude. What did you know about the so-called Final Solution [Endloesung] of the Jewish Question?
Benjamin Ferencz, a Jewish American war-crimes investigator, was born in Transylvania and grew up in New York City before earning his law degree from Harvard. He was assigned to investigate the concentration camps at Buchenwald, Mauthausen and Dachau after the war.[2]
These right wing agitators do not deny or gloss over the crimes of the Nazis out of stupidity or ignorance. There is nothing new to offer by way of research and no new theories that need to be tested. No other epoch in our history has been so well researched and documented as this horrible criminal regime in Germany…The mockery of millions of victims of genocide disrupts the public peace and heaps renewed humiliation upon the survivors. All this is well known - not only by us, but also by the right wing extremists. What they are really after is to fabricate a new legend by means of ideology and propaganda. Their denial of the gas ovens of Auschwitz and the state sponsored genocide in Nazi Germany goes hand in hand with their assertion that there were neither victims nor perpetrators. The Germans will once again have to be preserved from danger – above all, from the Jews, thereby forging the same old chains to provide a spiritual justification for discrimination, for further agitation, for further terror, for further attacks.[15]
John C. Ball, a geologist with experience interpreting aerial photographs, has reviewed the wartime aerial photos taken of Auschwitz-Birkenau, Treblinka, Belzec, Sobibór, Majdanek and Babi Yar. Ball concludes: “To this day there is no air photo evidence to support the alleged mass murder of the Jews at any location in Europe occupied by the Germans during World War Two. Further, air photo analysis refutes the claim that the ‘Nazis’ had intended, at whatever time, to keep events in the alleged extermination camps secret. In many cases the air photos provide clear proof that some of the events attested to by witnesses, such as the destruction of Hungarian Jews or the mass executions at Babi Yar, did not in fact take place.”[19]
This is a perfect description of the witness Venezia. In his book there is a very obvious imprint of having "read other works on the topic", particularly—of fundamental importance—the album by David Olère[271], but also of the testimonies of Miklos Nyiszli and Filip Müller, to which it is necessary to add the meetings with other self-proclaimed ex-members of the "Sonderkommando" and historians[272]. The photograph which appeared in 2002 in "Il Giornale", and later in "Gente"[273] as well, is revealing: in fact, it shows Venezia holding D. Olère's album in his hands, open to the page showing the drawing reproduced on p. 92 of Sonderkommando Auschwitz. At this point, Venezia refers to Olère several times by name, and even claims to have met him:
“We heard about a transport of people going out. There were rumors that people were killed, but there was never any mention of gas chambers. There were rumors that said people were squeezed together in these camps and most died of typhoid fever. And that was in essence the execution style. Now, about shootings, that was in connection with the partisans. Nevertheless, I am sure that they rounded up Jewish people and executed them along with the other partisans. I didn’t really give it any thought. I was fifteen, sixteen years old. We heard this on the periphery. That was not, to kids of my age at the time, our primary interest.” (p. 147)
We learn that the centre is “promoting Australia as a leader in the ‘revolution’ that in two years has swept the West from apathy to action in the pursuit of untried war criminals from the Holocaust.” Rather, the whole international charade has been organised behind the scenes, no doubt with enormous financial and psychological pressure on governments, politicians and the media, and has imposed one community’s war psychosis on nations.
”In 1941 the commandants of all German camps were summoned to Sachsenhausen in order to receive instructions as to the extermination of Soviet people, especially political officers [politrabotniki] of the Red Army. They were shown a new killing method: In a special room, the doomed were put against a wall to create the impression that it was intended to measure their height, whereupon they were shot in the back of the neck through a slit in the wall in which the measuring plate could be moved up and down.”
Part V, finally, arrives at the full-blown extermination phase. But even here, into 1942, we get qualifications and hesitations. Longerich places a repeated emphasis, not on the systematic mass murder of orthodoxy, but on an alternative hypothesis, that of "extermination through work." This is a kind of have-your-cake-and-eat-it-too strategy: all the actual evidence points toward confinement, deportations, ghettos, and forced labor…but that's just work, not murder. So, clearly, they must have been worked to death. And those incapable of work were, naturally, killed straightaway.
Finally the issue of inconvenient history, the topic which is most relevant to our journal must be able to be discussed, researched and written about without fear of persecution. In Germany today, questioning aspects of the Holocaust or publishing even scientific studies which vary from the orthodox position can be classified as “race hatred” and result in five-year prison sentences. The German government even went so far as to order the burning of the revisionist anthology, Grundlagen zur Zeitgeschicthe.
Winfried Meyer assumes that this draft originated in June 1945[14], but as it was written after Sharitch’s final report, which was dated 29 June 1945, the correct month is probably July 1945. Unlike most other drafts, Shn-1 bears two signatures (D. Kudryavzev and P. Semyonov). In all likelihood P. Semyonov was the real author of the text, which his superior, general Kudryavzev, simply approved by his signature). The heading has been made illegible by hand. The document is undated. It consists to a great extent of excerpts from the reports of the various subcommittees which had been active in Sachsenhausen, plus Sharitch’s final report.
Control of ideas and restrictions on freedom of thought are crucial to the success of traditionalism. The reader should have no illusions about the extent of this control. The book trade, for example, is notorious. Mainstream publishers will not touch any book that has even a scent of revisionist ideas. And yet orthodox historians have a seemingly endless supply of publishing opportunities. As evidence of this fact, we note that an Amazon.com search of English books on the Holocaust, just since the year 2000, returns 10,130 titles—roughly two releases per day. And not only books. Holocaust-themed and anti-Nazi movies are churned out like clockwork. News stories are routinely peppered with references to it. School children and college students are regularly indoctrinated with false, misleading, and self-serving ideas. Governmental leaders bend over backward to appease the Holocaust lobby, and they rush to make obligatory visits to Israel and the Yad Vashem museum there.
[19] Germar Rudolf, Lectures on the Holocaust, Theses & Dissertations Press, Chicago, Ill., 2005, p. 255.
The conflict between Trump and the Defenders of the Holocaust Faith is based on the fact that Trump has adhered to something more or less resembling the original war propaganda (which continues to exert influence because it was never authoritatively repudiated) instead of embracing the currently prevalent Zionist propaganda.
Once again, it is instructive to keep the big picture in mind. From the perspective of the Holocaust, there is one big question here: How many Jews died in the ghettos? Given the years of study, there should something approaching common agreement on what that number is, and how it is derived. It should be the lodestar, the central point around which all discussion of the ghettos revolves. It should be everywhere that the ghettos are examined. And yet we find it—nowhere.
A November 15, 1942 report produced by the resistance movement of the Warsaw ghetto originally stated that steam chambers were used to kill Jews at Treblinka. In 1944, Jankiel Wiernik converted the embarrassing “steam chambers,” which characterized the first phase of the Treblinka atrocity propaganda, into “gas chambers.” Official historiography now considers the gas chambers of Treblinka as established historical fact.[29]
Then there’s Misha Defonseca, who claimed to have run into the woods to escape the Nazis and been raised by wolves. Who would believe such nonsense? Answer: lots of people. The Romulus and Remus-inspired tale, recounted in her book Misha, received wide acclaim (including an encomium from Elie Wiesel), was translated into 18 languages, and earned her millions (“There’s no business like Shoah business”) before it was exposed as a fraud.15 The capper: Ms. Defonseca isn’t even Jewish!
“Lansky: […] I was in a concentration camp from 17 January 1942, in the Trostyanets camp.
Nonetheless Fradin’s attention to conspiracy thinking among revisionists is worthy. There’s a reason, after all, that our adversaries have tried tar Holocaust revisionism with the conspiracy brush: crying conspiracy is a hindrance in outreach to new audiences. Instead, presenting their position as anticonspiracy and discreetly policing it, while attacking the other for conspiracy thinking, is surely the way to go.
Q. Do you know how many delousing chambers there were in Auschwitz in 1942?
Lipstadt speaks of the two different reactions to Holocaust revisionism coming from her community: “Some find the overt anti-Semitism of Holocaust deniers the ranting of idiots who are best ignored. Others take these comments quite seriously and see a dire and existential threat to Jewish well-being. They see a Holocaust-denying president of a large country, one that is poised to have nuclear weapons, occupying the podium of a world forum that was founded in the wake of the Final Solution with a mandate to stop genocide. They hear him deny the Final Solution and threaten the existence of the Jewish state (p. xxvii).”
And that’s it. If Blaha was the only witness on trial testifying about the gas chamber, and if he had no experience whatsoever about the gassing procedure, then how did the American documentary makers know that the victims
At these meetings, before all our researchers, I realized the significance of my discoveries to the history of the Shoah. One after the other, they listed, with all their erudite language, what I had discovered on the camp. Meetings like this helped me become aware of the importance of my work. It became clear to me that I could no longer proceed merely empirically, no matter how useful that might be. My methods had to be more "professional" (p. 125).
This would imply that the planning of Birkenau camp arose from this order; on the other hand, this interpretation is in conflict with the documents, which attest that this camp was planned and built as a Kriegsgefangenenlager, as a POW camp. To overcome this difficulty, the same historiography, ignoring the great mass of proof to the contrary adduced by Jean-Claude Pressac, persists in affirming that the crematorium planned for the requirements of the Kriegsgefangenenlager was designed as a homicidal gas chamber from the very outset. This is how Piper expresses his contention:
As a matter of fact, western historians hardly ever mentioned the “machine” after the Nuremberg trial. But in Ukraine the machine became a museum attraction still shown to shuddering visitors and Ukrainian schoolchildren as evidence of the barbarism of the “German fascists.” However, the results of recent research, which we will now present, unmistakably proves that this version of events does not hold water. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union (1990), when an increasing number of Soviet archive documents became accessible in the West, three high-quality photographs of the “bone mill” have emerged. They can now be found on the Internet.
“MAJOR JONES: Are you, as the head of the Reich Chancellery, the man who knew all the secrets of the Third Reich, saying to this Tribunal that you had no knowledge of the murder of millions and millions who were murdered under the Nazi regime?
While spending most of the war in a British cell, Hess did not escape the charge of war crimes. He was brought before the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg. Hess hardly spoke throughout the trial. He is recorded however with having said, “I don’t believe it” when shown a documentary film on the concentration camps as they were found by American troops.[9] Ultimately Hess was found guilty of “Crimes against peace” and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Lipstadt then piles up one guilt-by-association on top of another, attacking Trump for Steve Bannon's tenuous association with the words “Alt Right.” Then Lipstadt says that Richard Spencer, the putative leader of the Alt Right, “has invited overt Holocaust deniers to alt-right conferences.” This compounded guilt-by-association is supposed to reflect on Spencer, and in turn on Bannon, and finally on Trump. (D. Lipstadt, The Atlantic, 30 January 2017)
This story cannot be true for the simple fact that, as recalled by Venezia himself, he and his companions bore, tattooed on their arms, the indelible mark of their membership in the "Sonderkommando": their Auschwitz registration number. If, therefore, the SS had really wished to trace the prisoners having worked in the crematoria, they would not have sent a soldier around to shout among the prisoners "Wer hat im Sonderkommando gearbeitet?", but they would have inspected the registration number of every prisoner in the sauna over the course of registration. Venezia's subterfuge is in fact transparently naive: he changed his last name to keep himself from being found out, therefore the SS had a list of names of prisoners from the "Sonderkommando", but then they would inevitably have had a list of the registration numbers[253].
How do we know that there really were gas chambers? What proof do we have that the survivors are telling the truth? Are we going to hear the German side?
Similar to Herman Kruk, Sherman-Zander claims that the Dutch deportees were all shot to death in forests in the vicinity of Riga, but this assertion is not based on observations of her own. As mentioned above, the deportation of Dutch Jews to Auschwitz began on 17 July 1942, a fact which fits well with Sherman-Zander’s testimony.
Thus, according to this "faith-based methodology, mere "traces", amounting to something much less than real evidence, are transformed into “proof”!
In later years, popular distaste for the use of atomic bombs began to threaten reputations. Criticisms and informed reassessments began surfacing, in response to which 'damage control' and 'spin-doctoring' went into play by those whose place in history were at stake. Byrnes, for example, in postwar interviews attempted to shift responsibility to the 'Interim Committee'—purportedly an advisory group set up by the president—for having made the recommendation to Truman to use the bomb. In actuality the committee was a sort of rubber stamp group which Byrnes dominated as the president's personal representative, and simply relayed his own agenda up the line, blessing decisions already made elsewhere. The president's daughter Margaret Truman in her memoir of her father's life, claimed that a meeting occurred in Potsdam at which the president polled the opinions of his leading military men, all or most of whom—according to her account—advised use of the bomb. Later historians in their analysis of Potsdam found such a meeting impossible in the timelines, and no evidence of such a meeting has ever surfaced in any memoirs, diaries, or interviews of the alleged participants—nor has Margaret Truman responded to any of the many enquiries put to her about this issue. Stimson was persuaded to allow others to ghost-write a postwar essay under his name for Harper's Magazine which reversed all his earlier views and recommendations regarding the bomb, to bring his 'new' thinking in line with 'Cold War' policy and doctrine. The later memoirs of Stimson, Byrnes, and of Truman, as well as those of others, similarly re-wrote history into a more establishment-friendly tone and outlook—often distorting past realities and sometimes inventing new lies to protect old ones.
Observers remembering the past alliances of the US with Antonio Noriega of Panama, Saddam Hussein of Iraq and/or Osama bin Laden of al Queda might find something familiar in this turn of events. The constant presence of two burly guards in the booth with Eichmann accords well with this scenario; one imagines that all their “labor” might have been obviated by the simple expedient of chaining Eichmann’s ankles to the floor, safely concealed from sight by the non-glass lower panels of his “bullet-proof” enclosure. It’s easy to suppose that the guards, either of whom obviously could have overpowered Eichmann, disposed of a gag, handcuffs and other means of swiftly silencing any off-script utterances Eichmann might have attempted in a suicidal paroxysm. But such “trials” are quite nothing if not theater. Shoah trials, they might be called from today’s perspective.
[19] Medoff, Rafael, Blowing the Whistle on Genocide: Josiah E. DuBois, Jr., and the Struggle for a U.S. Response to the Holocaust, West Lafayette, Ind., Purdue University Press, 2009, pp. 40-52, 71, 134-135.
Finally I will take a brief look at Ian Baxter’s The SS of Treblinka (Spellmount, Stroud 2012). A search at Amazon or any other online book will reveal that Baxter is not a Holocaust historian, but a military historian and author of a number of photography-focused books dealing with the European theatre of WWII, in particular the Eastern front. A common thread in the online reviews of his book is that the layout and photos are high quality, but that the writing is “history light” or even provide examples of poor scholarship. The latter unfortunately applies to his recent book focusing on the German and Austrian staff employed at the Treblinka “extermination camp”.
About 4,000 Dutch and Belgian Jews are now still alive in a concentration camp which the Germans established in the coastal town of Krestinga some six weeks ago, the paper reveals. They are engaged in the heaviest manual labor. The worst is feared for them when the Germans are forced soon by the Russian Army to withdraw from that area, the paper declares.”
In 2013, Italian police forces raided the homes of numerous participants of the U.S. Stormfront blog. The background of this raid was a discussion about the veracity and reliability of entries in the victims' database of the Israeli Yad Vashem Holocaust Remembrance Center, among other things. To verfy these claims, Italian blogger Olodogma looked into the matter. This brief paper documents the results. They show that it is indeed ridiculously easy to submit false, invented information to the Yad Vashem database, and that there seems to be no quality control at all.
This is a ludicrous story, but it is conveniently ludicrous. It attempts to explain away the glaring hole—the fact that we have found no evidence even approximating the 1.3 million supposed victims. Indeed, by a sort of perverse logic, the absence of bodies confirms the traditional view: “Of course there are no bodies; that was part of the plan.” Of course.
at its core [Holocaust denial] poses a threat to all who believe that knowledge and memory are among the keystones of our civilization.
[1] Carlo Mattogno, "'The Truth About the Gas Chambers?' Historical Considerations relating to Shlomo Venezia's 'Unique Testimony'," Inconvenient History, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2010
Thies Christophersen was another witness who said the alleged genocide of Jews during the war never happened. Christophersen supervised about 300 workers, many of them Jewish, at Auschwitz from January to December 1944. On a number of occasions during this period he visited Birkenau where allegedly hundreds of thousands of Jews were being gassed to death. In The Auschwitz Lie, a memoir first published in Germany in 1973, Christophersen wrote that during the time he was at Auschwitz he did not notice the slightest evidence of mass gassings. He also successfully answered numerous pointed questions by the prosecuting attorney at the 1988 Ernst Zündel trial about his experiences at Auschwitz.[21]
Michael Goldberg says in regard to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum:[22]
Germany decided to invade Poland on September 1, 1939. All of the British leaders claimed that the entire responsibility for starting the war was Hitler’s. Prime Minister Chamberlain broadcast that evening on British radio that “the responsibility for this terrible catastrophe (war in Poland) lies on the shoulders of one man, the German Chancellor.” Chamberlain claimed that Hitler had ordered Poland to come to Berlin with the unconditional obligation of accepting without discussion the exact German terms. Chamberlain denied that Germany had invited the Poles to engage in normal negotiations. Chamberlain’s statements were unvarnished lies, but the Polish case was so weak that it was impossible to defend it with the truth.
Henry Ford also suffered from declining health in his last years. In the spring of 1946, while watching a public-information film called Death Stations  showing gruesome images of the Majdanek Concentration Camp, Ford suffered a massive stroke. Josephine Gomon, director of female personnel at Ford’s Willow Run Bomber Plant, wrote: “The man who had pumped millions of dollars of anti-Semitic propaganda into Europe during the twenties saw the ravages of a plague he had helped to spread. The virus had come full circle.”[35]
"The affirmation, solely based on the letter of 29 January 1943, that the term ‘Vergasungskeller’ referred to a homicidal gas chamber installed in the Leichenkeller 1 (corpse cellar) of Krematorium II, was irresponsible, for even if ‘gas chamber’ were correct, there was no evidence that it was a ‘homicidal’ one.”[35]
The main fact which the prosecution attempted to prove was that the defendants had known that the gas they provided was used for extermination. While witnesses for the gassings did appear, they were not the focus of the trial, and the “fact” of mass extermination with gas in concentration camps was largely taken as known, having already been “proven” at the Belsen trial. In establishing the defendant’s “guilty knowledge”, the vital witnesses were the trio Sehm-Frahm-Pook, as well as the TESTA secretaries Biagini and Uenzelmann. We will focus on the evidence which these witnesses presented at the trial, how it compares to their previous statements, and the pretrial machinations concerning how the case would be presented.
The figure of 33,771 Jews murdered at Babi Yar comes from Einsatzgruppen Event Report 106 of October 7, 1941.[iii] That the Germans let copies of the Einsatzgruppen reports fall into the hands of the Allies is strikingly odd. They could have easily burned these few stacks of incriminating papers before the Allies conquered Germany.[iv] The authenticity of the Einsatzgruppen reports has also been questioned because, like so much other “evidence” of Nazi atrocities, the documents emerged from the Soviet occupation zone.[v]
My friend William called from Chicago to ask how the video project on Auschwitz is going. William is one of my volunteer advisors. I told him there had been too many production problems and I'd had to lay it aside. I said I was going to concentrate on finishing the book manuscript.
With the Zündel trial behind him, Leuchter’s first thought was to return to his normal profession and carry on business as usual. Unbeknownst to Leuchter, his life was to be changed forever. Leuchter’s ‘indiscretion’ had set into motion powerful forces determined to discredit not only his conclusions regarding Auschwitz, but to discredit the man himself and ruin his life.
For that matter, why did the Reinhardt camps ever need to bury bodies? If they were in fact designed and built as “pure extermination camps,” surely the Germans would have constructed basic crematoria at each location—high-speed, highly efficient crematoria, to totally dispose of the evidence of the crime. Instead, they could do no better (allegedly) than to dump the bodies in a big hole in the ground, and then later, realizing their stupidity, dig up and burn the decaying corpses over log fires. And then, in another move of monumental stupidity, they decided to bury the ashes in the very holes from which the corpses came—ash that would then sit there for decades, waiting to be analyzed.
In Australia, revisionist Frederick Töben, director of the Adelaide Foundation, faced troubles of a legal nature after being denounced by Jeremy Jones, the former president of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry. Newspapers gloated that Töben was unable to find a lawyer to defend him against allegations that he has “raised serious doubt about the Holocaust.”[36]
Conclusion: the ‘mystery camp’ remains largely mysterious. The vans, the bodies, the fuel, and the ash have all but vanished, as has all documentary and photographic evidence. The alleged gassing method is quite literally senseless. And we can easily understand how such stories of “homicidal gas vans” came to exist. Doubtless many Jews passed through the Chelmno station, on their way out of the Lodz ghetto. Doubtless many of them died in the ghetto and surrounding region. Perhaps the bodies were taken to Chelmno to be disposed of. Perhaps some were buried, and some burned on crude pyres. But the evidence suggests that this number was much smaller than 250,000—perhaps a few thousand at most.
And in case anyone other than Phil Donahue still believes the propaganda about the Dachau “gas chamber,” Cole is at the ready with a sobriety check:
Another factor making impossible the official number of 6 million Jews dying in German camps is the fact that thousands of corpses could not possibly have been cremated every day at Auschwitz-Birkenau as is commonly claimed. Ivan Lagacé, manager of a large crematory in Calgary, Canada, testified at the 1988 Ernst Zündel trial that based on his experience it would have only been possible to cremate a maximum of 184 bodies a day at Birkenau. Lagacé stated that the claim that the 46 retorts at Birkenau could cremate over 4,400 bodies in a day is “ludicrous,” “preposterous” and “beyond the realm of reality.”[28]
Die Briten sind in erster Linie verantwortlich für diese Szene der “Massenvernichtung”. Bilder des kurz zuvor von britischen Flugzeugen bombardierten und beschossenen Nordhausen werden jedoch heute noch als Beweis für einen vorsätzlichen deutsch-geplanten Holocaust benutzt.
But this observation entirely misses the point. For the so-called "mother question" in the Middle East has never been how to solve Israel's problems, but rather, how to deal with the impossible problems created by Israel. And central to those problems is the political capital the Jewish state has made out of what Crowell calls the Canonical Holocaust. Indeed, it is unlikely that a Jewish state could ever have been founded on Palestinian Arab lands, much less won license to commit permanent ethnic cleansing against them, had it not been for widespread belief in the extermination of European Jewry in gas chambers and cremation ovens, a uniquely horrible destiny, if true. But if that story is fatally flawed, as Crowell's careful research suggests it is, then world leaders' ritual deference to a presumed unique Jewish victimhood (especially on the part of U.S. leaders) may very well prove impossible to sustain, as may the justification for maintaining Israel as an exclusively Jewish state. And if U.S. support on these scores ever wavers, it is difficult to see how Israel will be able to stave off the radical transformation it will have to undergo in order to remain part of the Middle East. Whether it continues to exist in name or not, it would no longer be the theocracy the world is familiar with.
Belzec is, allegedly, designed as we presumed: one building with three chambers. The room size, however, is in dispute—either 12 or 32 square meters per room, depending on the witness. Orthodoxy claims that the Germans could pack in 10 people per square meter, thus able to gas either 360 or 960 per cycle. With a 2-hour cycle, and running round the clock—as the experts claim they did—Belzec could thus kill up to 4,320 (or 11,520) per day.
Then follows a recounting of the 15 November 1942 underground report on Treblinka and its "steam chambers".[5] Interestingly the survey's description of the Warsaw Ghetto evacuation appears to be derived from an earlier version not mentioning any gas (or steam) chambers. In an article by a certain Zachariah Shuster published in the February 1943 issue of the bimonthly Contemporary Jewish Record we read:
Von Laue also defended the motives of German scientists who had worked on the German atomic-bomb project during the war. In a review of Samuel Goudsmit’s book Alsos, American physicist Philip Morrison stated that the Germans “worked for the cause of Himmler and Auschwitz, for the burners of books and the takers of hostages. The community of science will be long delayed in welcoming the armourers of the Nazis, even if their work was not successful.” Von Laue wrote in reply that it was a “monstrous suggestion” that German scientists as a body worked for Himmler and Auschwitz. Von Laue also said he doubted whether Goudsmit could ever write objectively about the German atomic-bomb program.[7]
Once again, here we have a major discrepancy about the alleged murder weapon. The archeologists say it took 20-30 minutes to asphyxiate the victims. Yet, the Central Commission for Investigation of German Crimes in Poland claimed it did not take more than about 15 minutes to do the same. And might I add, Erich Fuchs, an alleged gas chamber operator, declared he witnessed a “trial gassing” in which 30 to 40 women were killed in about ten minutes.[47]
In Vinnitsa, Ukraine, the occupying Germans found altogether 91 mass graves at three different places situated on the outskirts of the city (the graveyard, the orchard and the public park). In the period between July and 1 November 1943 all of them were completely emptied, and 9,432 bodies were exhumed. As had been the case at Katyn, medical experts, journalists, clergymen etc. were invited to Vinnitsa so that they could personally see the evidence. Once again, the results of the investigations were thoroughly documented in a German “White Book”[5]. In spite of the overwhelming evidence, the Soviet propaganda again accused the Germans, but Vinnitsa soon disappeared from the headlines. In March 1944 the city was re-conquered by the Red Army.
Williamson in this passage falsely states that Jews were gassed in German concentration camps during World War II. The reality is that there were no homicidal gas chambers in any of the German concentration camps.[21]
But did he have no axe to grind? From one point of view, Horn may be seen as a turncoat. What were his motives for turning State’s evidence? Is it possible that he was subject to blackmail or bribery? Is it possible that he has a position to maintain? We cannot lightly accept the Israeli judges’ assertion about Horn: “(He) had already served a prison sentence for his wartime activities… and had no personal motive for implicating Demjanjuk.”
After the war, the ICRC reported that the sexual abuse of female inmates in Czech-run camps was pervasive and systematic. A foreign observer of one Czech camp noted that the women were “treated like animals. Russian and Czech soldiers come in search of women for purposes which can be imagined. Conditions there for women are definitely more unfavorable than in the German concentration camps, where cases of rape were rare.” In another Czech-run camp, the soldiers would “take away the prettiest girls, who would often disappear without trace.”
In 1960, Martin Broszat stated: “Neither at Dachau, nor at Bergen-Belsen, nor at Buchenwald were any Jews or other detainees gassed.”
However, the Schecters found documentary evidence to verify Sudoplatov’s story. As stated in The Venona Secrets:[22]
‘There exists no documentary or material evidence whatever supporting the official claim that Sobibor served as a “pure extermination camp” where hundreds of thousands of Jews were gassed, buried and later dug up and burned on open-air pyres. The only documentary evidence mustered by prosecutors and Holocaust historians consists of reports and transports lists confirming that large numbers of Jews were sent to the camp….. On the other hand, a directive issued by Himmler on 5th July 1943, as well as a reply from Oswald Pohl on 15th July 1943 (Nuremberg document No. 482) speaks of “the Sobibor transit camp located in the Lublin district.”’
Olaf Jensen, PhD, is an honorary associate member of the Stanley Burton Centre for Holocaust and Genocide Studies at the University of Leicester, of which he was director for several years.
With the liberation of Ohrdruf, Buchenwald and Dachau by the American army and the liberation of Bergen-Belsen by British troops, large groups of Western observers confronted the horrors of the German camps for the first time. The gruesome scenes of huge piles of dead bodies and emaciated and diseased surviving inmates were filmed and photographed for posterity by the U.S. Army Signal Corps. Prominent newsmen and politicians were flown in to Germany to see the harrowing evidence at the camps for themselves. The horrific scenes in the German camps were used by the Allies to justify their participation in the war.[1]
“Thus, while Holocaust denial continues to have great brand recognition, it now has surprisingly few customers.” (p. 35)
While the refutation presented by the revisionists alone is enough to make the orthodox “Holocaust“ story collapse like a house of cards, the proponents and defenders of the officially sanctioned exterminationist hypothesis, while doing their best to counter the revisionist onslaught with censorship and various damage control tactics, keep repeating over and over the same question: If the Jews were not gassed, where did they go?
For the most commonplace murder, the judicial authority, happily enough, is never satisfied with “testimonies” but demands, before anything else, a forensic examination; to this purpose, the technical service of the police examines both the crime scene and the murder weapon while, for their part, the forensic police put to laboratory analysis all physical elements liable to enlighten the investigators. It is afterwards, in light of the forensic examination and an analysis of the facts as materially established, that one might knowledgeably seek to gauge the value of certain witnesses’ accounts. Personally, for over half a century I have wanted to know what the formidable “murder weapon” that was the Nazi gas chamber looked like; I expected to see a technical illustration of that weapon and an explanation of its use. I noted that in some former German concentration camps, since turned into theme parks, visitors were shown a room said to be a “Nazi gas chamber” but, curiously, not the least scientific evidence could be supplied to support that assertion, no results of any forensic examination. In the early 1960s, on my first visit to the Centre de documentation juive contemporaine (CDJC) in Paris, my only question to those in charge had been: “Can you show me a photo of a Nazi gas chamber?” They were unable to do so. Ditto at the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington in 1994, and in a good number of other places. The general public may be fooled with photos like that of the American politicians “visiting the Dachau gas chamber” but no longer will anyone venture to employ the same procedure when dealing with a researcher who knows his subject.
Next, Anna Bergman, a Czech and inmate at Auschwitz:
Professor van Pelt also admitted that the "evidence" for the mass killings of Jews at Treblinka, Sobibor and Belzec—where allegedly millions were murdered—is sparse at best. In reference to these three camps, he wrote: "There are few eyewitnesses, no confession that can compare to that given by [Auschwitz commandant Rudolf] Höss, no significant remains, and few archival sources."[16]
According to the standard Holocaust story, after the Jews were gassed their corpses were burned in crematoriums, or thrown into mass graves and some time later were dug up and burned en masse in open-air cremations. To the best of my knowledge, no physical evidence of mass graves, with the corpses of murdered Jews, was ever shown to the court at Eichmann’s trial, nor was there any physical/forensic evidence of mass murder presented. Israeli authorities must have foreseen that the lack of physical evidence for Holocaust claims would be a cause for world-wide doubt, and something would have to be said to quell suspicion. Significantly, the prosecution provided “eyewitnesses” who claimed the Germans “destroyed” all of the physical evidence (pp. 53, 141). Lipstadt writes: “Leon Wells told of Operation 1005, the group of Jewish prisoners assigned to eradicate the evidence by opening mass graves and exhuming, burning, and pulverizing the bodies (p. 87).”
In reality, the 8-muffle ovens at Birkenau were capable of cremating no more than 160 bodies per day (per day total), i.e., a cremation rate of one body per muffle per hour, for a twenty-hour working day,[14] (8 muffles x 1 corpse per hour x 20 hours = 160.)
If we accept the working hypothesis that Trostenets functioned as transit point in a resettlement program, then some of the anomalies encountered in mainstream historiography no longer seem that odd. In an affidavit from 5 November 1945 (2620-PS) the former head of the SS-RSHA Security Service and commander of Einsatzgruppe D, SS- Gruppenführer Otto Ohlendorf stated:
"According to my estimate there were 1200 to 1300 Jews in the camp. This figure remained unchanged, the fresh supply [of manpower] was taken from camps, from Theresienstadt and Auschwitz and probably also from other ones. […] Transport after transport arrived. Often we never even heard where they came from, since it frequently happened that all [of the deportees] were immediately liquidated."[27]
Let’s deal with Prof. Faurisson first. By the time Ms. Lipstadt wrapped up her typescript in late 1992, Faurisson had published a monograph where he summarized his case,[25] a response to a major critic of his,[26] and a number of papers that deserve to be called “scholarly” in their approach,[27] although most of them in French, and some written under a pen name.[28] Dr. Lipstadt mentions none of them. In her footnote 14 on page 293, she does quote – although incompletely – one paper by Faurisson which summarizes his reason as to why the hypothesis that the Nazis used gas chambers to mass murder people is a problem, hence the title of the paper:[29] “The ‘Problem of the Gas Chambers.’” Considering the brevity and dearth of references of that paper, we hesitate calling it scholarly in nature. It’s more of a provocation and a mission statement, if you wish. But be that as it may, doing Faurisson justice in 1992 would have meant taking on his 280-page monograph Mémoire en defense and the sequel Réponse à Pierre Vidal-Naquet. But instead, Lipstadt focuses on polemical statements Faurisson made over the years.
What about the six million? Holocaust death tolls were calculated in the aggregate, based on estimated population sizes. Wrote Judge Gray: “(Christopher) Browning advanced what is in effect a demographic argument in support of the Defendants’ contention that Jews were exterminated in the gas chambers at the death camps in vast numbers. He calculated the approximate number who were deported from western European countries and removed from the ghettos of Poland; he asserted that contemporaneous evidence proves that many of them were transported to Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka . . ." Those unaccounted for were presumed dead in the Holocaust. ". . . since they were never heard of again, Browning considers it reasonable to infer that they were put to death in the camps” (emphasis added).
The layout of the underground facilities of Crematorium II (and III, of similar design) is discussed at length in The Case…. One of the details to which van Pelt attributes great importance is the fact that when the stairs-cum-slide were abandoned for Crematorium II the double door leading into Morgue 1 (the alleged gas chamber) was turned around: it had formerly swung into the morgue and would now swing into the vestibule. Whether the doors should swing one way or the other in a homicidal gas chamber is, however, not so easy to answer, as we shall see further on.
“Part I” of the report is a text written in the English language and entitled “Report on Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen at Oranienburg”. In view of the fact that the title, the subdivision into chapters and the headings of these chapters in this English language document match those of the other versions of the Prisoner’s Report, there can be no doubt that the former is simply a translation of the latter.[13] Bischoff and Hers are mute as to the genesis of the original, however several clues suggest that their text is based on the first draft (HB-1). Probably the two Dutchmen, being co-signers of the Prisoner’s Report, had got a copy of HB-1. Back in Holland, Bischoff personally translated the report from German into English.[14]
The figures decoded in Bletchley Park obviously caused confusion among historians. The official number of Auschwitz victims amounts, as is well known, to 1 million. But how is it possible to arrive at such a high figure based on the SS radio messages deciphered by the British Intelligence Service?
Similarly, when Phil Donahue had two prominent revisionists on his popular talk show in 1994 (if only such could happen today on network television!), he used photos of the fake gas chamber at Dachau to counter the revisionists’ claim that there were no gas chambers. Donahue became so flustered when this was pointed out to him by one of the revisionists, he revealed he didn’t even know if the photos were of Dachau.25
Banged Up belongs on the shelves of Irving collectors and those interested in the evolution of Orwellian tactics now practiced in once-free Europe. It reveals a terrific writer but a hardened man, perhaps made so by his enemies. It will no doubt leave revisionists angry that so little is revealed about his real thoughts on the Holocaust. It will leave the anti-Irving crowd even more certain of his “anti-Semitism.”
We will again encounter the same pattern later when addressing the way Lipstadt discusses actual revisionist arguments about the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz. There, too, she relies exclusively on Pressac: of the 29 endnotes referencing her discussion about the gas chambers, 28 refer to Pressacs’s first book,[32] and one to a revisionist book by Faurisson – which, again, cannot be counted.
It is well known that several witnesses from Auschwitz describe cremation pits equipped with a system for the recovery of human fat flowing down off the human bodies into appropriate fat recovery pits or ditches from which it was drawn off by means of buckets and thrown back on the fire. Revisionists consider such a procedure impossible. Holo-blogger Sergey Romanov, in his text “Recovery of Liquid Fat from Pyres Is Impossible”[1] attempts to demonstrate that it was possible.
The controversial proposal calls for the courts to impose a sentence of three years’ imprisonment for those who “deny genocide.”
In July 1990, the Polish government's Auschwitz State Museum, along with Israel's Yad Vashem Holocaust center, conceded that the four million figure was a gross exaggeration, and references to it were accordingly removed from the Auschwitz monument. Israeli and Polish officials announced a tentative revised toll of about 1.1 million Auschwitz dead. [16]
But he never did this. Nor has any official of the Catholic Church ever publicly apologized for the Papal wrong of lending moral credence to the propaganda lie that four million people were murdered at Auschwitz.
Another defendant at the Einsatzgruppen trial, Walter Haensch, testified that he knew nothing of the murder of the Jews and denied any criminal wrongdoing by his Kommando while he was its leader. Haensch claimed he first learned of the murder of Jews in July 1947 when his interrogator at Nuremberg told him of the Final Solution. Haensch testified that the Einsatzgruppen reports that contradicted his testimony were inaccurate. After the trial, Haensch became so obsessed with proving his innocence that he refused to apply for parole, hoping that American officials would see their error and grant him the clemency he deserved.[22]
The typewritten manuscript of this copy[21] is identical with the preceding ones, but the handwritten pagination of pages 1-11 is highly chaotic (p. 94, 99, 100, 101, 109, 106, 107, 108, 110, 111, 95). As the numerous changes, additions, cuts, rearrangements and insertions show, the text was drastically modified. It emerges from a later accompanying letter that these modifications were made by Kudryavzev’s superior Bogoyavlenski, the responsible secretary of the ESC, in compliance with Vyshinksy’s instructions. The document Shn-4D is basically the rough draft of a new report the definitive version of which was to be Shn-6. Shn-4D bears the handwritten date 29. IX. 45, which means that it was drafted only three days after Shn-4A. The trial of the “main war criminals” in Nuremberg was scheduled to commence on 20 November 1945. Apparently the authors of the Sachsenhausen report were pressed for time.
It is a rather bizarre notion that the Germans, after perfecting a method by which hundreds of thousands of people could be killed in assembly-line fashion within a few months or even weeks, would then have busily planned the murder of hundreds of thousands of Jews by means of shooting at a large number of varied locations. Spector’s assertion that this was done because the Ukrainian people were “indifferent or hostile to the Jews and collaborated with the occupier” does not hold water, considering that in the predominantly Ukrainian region of Galicia, which had been under Soviet rule between 1939 and 1941 and subjected to NKVD terror, the population collaborated with the German occupiers to about the same extent as the population in Reich Commissariate Ukraine,[110] and here, as discussed above, the Jews were sent to the “death camp” Bełżec. It gets even more bizarre when considering that for several locations in Volhynia-Podolia the Jewish population is claimed to have been massacred not at sites “nearby the ghetto” but at locations up to some 40 km away, to which they had to be brought by train.[111] From a revisionist viewpoint the above-described mystery is easily explained: until September 1943 all transports of Jews between Poland and the Occupied Eastern Territories went in one direction – to the east – in accordance with the general resettlement program for the Jews.
Self-help gurus and Christian ministers frequently mention the “Holocaust” in their quest to help people lead better lives. This article analyzes the writings of some of the most famous self-help gurus concerning the false Holocaust narrative.
How can we know that all the victims were Jews? We wonder how many of the human remains located were those of the 10-15 million estimated to have been murdered by Stalin’s Jewish henchman Lazar Kaganovich in the notorious induced starvation of the early 1930s? Since we are told “the work is characterized by its rigor” (p. 59), a future edition of The Holocaust by Bullets may elucidate this question.
Ernst Zündel implemented Faurisson’s ideas in his 1988 criminal trial in Toronto by hiring Fred Leuchter to conduct a forensic examination of Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek. Leuchter concludes in the Leuchter Report that there were no homicidal gas chambers at any of these sites. Additional reports, articles, testimony and videos from Walter Lüftl, Germar Rudolf, Friedrich Paul Berg, Dr. William B. Lindsey, Carlo Mattogno, John C. Ball, Richard Krege and David Cole have conclusively shown that there were no homicidal gas chambers at any of the German camps during World War II.
As of October 2008, fourteen countries had enacted laws either specifically prohibiting and punishing “Holocaust denial” or expressions of “racism.” These countries are Israel, France, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, Austria, Spain, Czech Republic, Lithuania, Poland, and Slovakia, Denmark, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg.
In June 1959 the Catholic American Sunday paper Our Sunday Visitor printed a letter to the editor that has gained a certain celebrity within the revisionist community. The reason was not only its content, but also the authority of the writer concerning his subject. The letter dealt with a sensitive item, the existence of homicidal gas chambers in the German concentration camps. The author of the letter was a certain Stephen F. Pinter, Attorney at Law in St. Louis, Missouri. After the end of the war Pinter had served as an Attorney for the U.S. War Department within the U.S. War Crimes Program. Through his letter a competent witness of the Allied side had appeared—someone who must have known details about the existence of gas chambers. Therefore, the most important statement of Pinter´s letter, that there were no gas chambers in the camps he had visited, is of considerable value.
May wrote in his report of August 16 1941: “Union Banking Corporation, incorporated August 4 1924, is wholly owned by the Bank voor Handel en Scheepvaart NV of Rotterdam, the Netherlands. My investigation has produced no evidence as to the ownership of the Dutch bank. Mr. Cornelis [sic] Lievense, president of UBC, claims no knowledge as to the ownership of the Bank voor Handel but believes it possible that Baron Heinrich Thyssen, brother of Fritz Thyssen, may own a substantial interest.”
“They lived for some months there, when one day we learned that the Gypsy Camp had been emptied. They sent them all to the gas chambers.” (p. 139)
If nothing else, Lipstadt and others should have realized that applying epithets like Anti-Semite and Holocaust Denier to a leader who habitually does not yield under such pressure, and who has fanatical support in a large part of the citizenry, could only result in the diminution of whatever power those words retain.
The next day The Age returned to the attack on Töben.[117] The paper also published a harrowing story of a 92 year-old Holocaust survivor, Moshe Fiszman, who warned that the “forces of darkness” would be unleashed if race-hate laws were watered down. It is hard to see much sign of such forces in laid-back Australia!
The book also mentions the 10 gas chambers, each of 16 square meters in area, which could collectively gas “up to 5000 victims at a time” (p. 13). So: 500 victims per room, which works out to 31 persons per square meter of area. Evidently the authors count on the reader being incapable of basic math—otherwise they wouldn’t put forth this obvious nonsense.
This message is dated only “02”, as in “the second day of the month”, at 1800 hours. The position in the file, however, indicates that the month was January. We will trace through the chronology of the pretrial period to see where Pook came back into the story. The report on the case, dating to early November, mentions only that a statement should be taken from Pook. A November 28 advisory report by Brigadier H. Shapcott recommended charges against Tesch only, suggesting that the cases of Weinbacher and Drosihn be left for a later date.[68] Though it listed all witnesses and other evidence to be brought, the report made no mention of Frahm or Pook. These two were also omitted from a December 12 list of witnesses to be called.[69]
For the sake of brevity, we will divide the Eichmann memoirs into two phases—those composed before his capture (precapture testimonies), and those composed while he was in Israeli custody (postcapture testimonies). Even if Browning and Lipstadt never made their devastating allegations in regard to the Eichmann memoirs, historians would have legitimate reason to be skeptical of anything that conforms to the Holocaust ideology in his postcapture testimonials. To-wit:
News Weekly’s coverage also had much to tell about the Office of Special Investigations. On 4th May 1988 an article referred to ‘a three-year Freedom of Information battle’ to obtain Soviet documents from the OSI for Demjanjuk’s defence. On 18th May 1988 it commented, again relying on Nishnic, that this evidence ‘was withheld from Demjanjuk’s lawyers, apparently because the Office deeply resented its failure to secure convictions in the Walus and Fedorenko cases.’
Carlo Mattogno, Rudolf Höss, Commandant of Auschwitz: Rudolf Höss, His Torture and His Forced Confessions, Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield, UK, Nov. 2017; 402 pages pb, 6"×9", bibliography, index, ISBN: 9781591481911. Read it free of charge or purchase a hard copy here.
“A kid in elementary school who visited the exhibition organized by our community in 1993 with documents, photos and various objects, all about the Holocaust, asked in his father full puzzlement: Were the Germans so dumb and kept all this evidence?” (pp. 89f.)
Jewish defenders of the Holocaust story have also taken extreme measures to prosecute perpetrators of the alleged crimes. John Demjanjuk, for example, was found not guilty by the Israeli Supreme Court in 1993 of being Ivan the Terrible at Treblinka. Demjanjuk returned to his home in Cleveland, Ohio and looked forward to a peaceful retirement after spending years on death row in Israel. Unfortunately, in 2001 Demjanjuk was charged again on the grounds that he had been a guard named Ivan Demjanjuk at the Sobibór camp in Poland.
Evidentemente ai solerti scribacchini shammashim ( se non conoscono il significato del termine, lo chiedano ai loro padroni) sfugge il vero e solo motivo di tutto questo: sbugiardare i falsari!!! Chiunque, in pochi “step”, può costruirsi il suo “personale gasato” che entrerà nel conteggio ufficiale dei morti della shoah… basta entrare nel sito ufficiale del museo dell’olocausto Yad Vashem di Gerusalemme, compilare un modulo inventando nome, luoghi, date, dati e persino la causa della morte del nonno, dello zio o del  conoscente, inviare tutto e “per magia”, dopo pochissimo tempo, arriverà nella mail indicata un bel certificato da stampare e incorniciare… ovviamente il nome del “gasato”, inventato di sana pianta, entrerà nell’elenco ufficiale dei morti… nessun “stato di famiglia” è richiesto e nessuna indagine per appurare la veridicità dei dati inseriti viene effettuata… si compila un modulo e il numero si  gonfia… ecco la serietà dei ricercatori olocaustici.
Which returns us to the problem of Prof. Douglas’s forthcoming book on the mass deportation of ethnic Germans in the aftermath of World War II. There are, as described by Yale University Press, salient features of Douglas’s book that make it a seminal work on ‘Holocaust relativity’:
Tauber also stated in his deposition that the Sonderkommandos carried the bodies to the crematorium muffles. Tauber makes no mention that the Sonderkommandos used special protection to carry the bodies.[13] A body that has been killed with hydrocyanic acid (HCN) cannot be safely touched by any person without protection. Dr. Robert Faurisson said in regard to HCN poisoning: “Hydrocyanic acid penetrates into the skin, the mucous membranes, and the bodily fluids. The corpse of a man who has just been killed by this powerful poison is itself a dangerous source of poisoning, and cannot be touched with bare hands. In order to enter the HCN-saturated chamber to remove the corpse, special gear is needed, as well as a gas mask with a special filter.”[14] The danger of touching someone killed with Zyklon B gas is confirmed in the scientific literature.[15]
“Hello, my name is Federico Bussone, I’m from Italy. I think I have discovered an important weak point in the mainstream official story of the Auschwitz Main Camp crematorium. As far as I know, this weak point has never been highlighted by any revisionist, and so I would like to share with you my ‘discovery.’
At the time, however, according to Holocaust historiography, the morgues of the crematoria were crammed full of Hungarian Jews intended for extermination, which is in obvious conflict with the above mentioned letter.
John Demjanjuk was a farm boy from Ukraine, which was invaded and occupied by Germany in 1941, when Demjanjuk was 21. Demjanjuk had by that time been drafted into the Red Army that opposed the German invasion, but he became a prisoner of war of the Germans after an engagement in which his side lost. Demjanjuk’s story at this time becomes, like the stories of many of the other war criminals, befogged by blood, smoke and war. At some point during this tumultuous period, however, it seems Demjanjuk took up duty, nominally on the German side, as a guard at certain concentration camps in which the occupying Germans confined and enslaved various people they felt threatened their control of the areas, including Jews. It is alleged, in fact, that the Germans deliberately killed Jews and perhaps others in such places, and the legal standards that grew up around such allegations, on the part of parties connected with the victorious Allies, implicated even such passive agents as guards (Demjanjuk’s role) in the alleged enterprise.
Goldman’s main beef is with the ad hoc lie of the bone-dissolving machines, but this echoes the many, far more grievous lies about Auschwitz, Belzec, Treblinka, and indeed all six of the so-called death camps.[4] Of these, Goldman of course is silent. But he does decry the ongoing process of myth-formation surrounding a camp like Jasenovac, “where myths of Serbian and Jewish suffering were interwoven, providing a new series of national myths” (to cite the author David McDonald). Goldman, though, naturally avoids the similar but far greater myth-formation process about Auschwitz, the other camps, and the broader Holocaust. It is this very myth-formation process that has led to numbers like 1 million Jews gassed at Auschwitz, when, on the far more plausible revisionist thesis, perhaps 150,000 people died there, of whom maybe half were Jews—but none in gas chambers.
Before putting on their gas masks, the SS would have then ordered two to four members of the Sonderkommando to put on masks, open the gas chamber door and drag bodies out into the vestibule until several of the air extraction orifices had been cleared. Then the gas-tight door would have been closed again, the ventilation restarted, and to improve its efficiency all that was required was to open the Zyklon-B introduction covers, but not until that moment. After verifying by means of a gas detector that there was no longer any danger of hydrocyanic acid intoxication outside the gas chamber, operations would have resumed their ‘normal’ course.
Cremation was compulsory in the German concentration camps, and it was performed in accordance with the Feuerbestattungsgesetz (Law on Cremation) of 1934. The urn was usually sent to the cemetery of the deceased person’s hometown; if this was not feasible or considered undesirable for political reasons, it was buried in an anonymous mass grave in a nearby graveyard. Whether the concentration camps were equipped with electric mills is open to dispute. According to eyewitness statements, in some camps cremated bones were crushed by means of a pestle on a concrete base or a metal plate, which would have been a rather primitive technique. Incidentally such witness reports are contradicted by the fact that the Feuerbestattungsgesetz, which prescribed individual burial of the ashes in an urn, was observed in the concentration camps, at least until 1944.
I have found it illuminating to project the patterns depicted in Friedrich Jansson’s article upon what I know, what I have heard, what I used to know, and what I now disbelieve, of the Holocaust.
Derzeit gibt das US Holocaust Museum selbst zu:[17]
On the other hand, Rassinier points out that there is no reason to regard the gas chamber witnesses of Auschwitz as a priori more reliable than the false gas chamber witnesses of Buchenwald and Bergen-Belsen.
Hence, their method can be summarized as follows: Initially they assume that all Jews within Hitler’s reach were “presumably murdered.” Then they collect all the names they can somehow get, and delete from that list those for whom they receive documentary or anecdotal evidence of their survival.
Auschwitz—Forensically Examined provides an excellent introduction to the forensic evidence proving that Auschwitz/Birkenau was not an extermination camp. Readers who are interested in a more detailed analysis of the forensic evidence can read books written by Germar Rudolf and Carlo Mattogno to gain additional insights.
Real shower rooms, phony planted evidence like this lamp shade, and victims of Allied bombing are not proof of a genocide using gas chambers, disguised as shower rooms. We were manipulated, misled and lied to.
In fact, the authors say nothing about Aktion 1005, but restrict themselves to compiling a biography of Blobel. The objective of their book seems in fact to consist of establishing a correlation between the above-mentioned operation and “Holocaust denial”:
Remark: To bring their horrible charges of homicidal gassings against the defeated, the accusers have relied solely on testimonies and those testimonies  have not been verified. Let us take note of the particular case of Auschwitz-I: it was thus 38 years ago that a Jewish historian had the courage to write that this camp was “without any gas chamber”; however, still today, in 2006, crowds of tourists there visit an enclosed space that the authorities dare to present, fallaciously, as a “gas chamber”. Here we see a practice of outright deceit.
A. I must adhere to my statement that only after your victory did I hear that men had been gassed in the concentration camps.
Samuels also dispatched an irate letter to Bavarian State President Edmund Stoiber in which he demanded that Le Pen be banned from re-entering Bavaria, as “his presence in the shadow of Dachau [concentration camp] is a desecration for all victims of Nazism.”[23]
2. Countering Holocaust denial in relation to the Nuremberg trials
The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes is clarifying, in ways that dry, excrutiatingly thorough analyses of evidence-on-the-ground concerning the originary events cannot possibly be. It illuminates why people would have thought what they seem to have thought upon receiving "information," and how those in possession of such "information" may have found and exploited opportunities created by it. It is, to greatly simplify, "the Holocaust in context"—the contemporaneous context in which the seminal allegations arose and were received, and the reception that has since been extended, extrapolated, perpetuated, sanctified, and elevated to the status of secular Scripture for at least the entire West, and by intention for the entire world.
Now, I have no doubt that some controversial professor in some field may have done just that, but where is the evidence that any revisionist professor (or any other revisionist scholar) has ever engaged in attention-seeking ad hominem attacks on those who oppose him, leading those thusly attacked to respond? Again, no example is given, and no source quoted. You just have to believe Dr. Deborah! I’m not saying she is necessarily wrong. All I’m saying is that:
On the way to the gas chambers Germans with dogs stood along the fence on both sides. The dogs had been trained to attack people; they bit the men’s genitals and the women’s breasts, ripping off pieces of flesh. The Germans hit the people with whips and iron bars to spur them on, so that they would press forward into the “showers” as quickly as possible. The screams of the women could be heard far away, even in the other parts of the camp. The Germans drove the running victims on with shouts of “Faster, faster, the water is getting cold, and others still have to take a shower!” To escape from the blows, the victims ran to the gas chambers as quickly as they could, the stronger ones pushing the weaker ones aside. At the entrance to the gas chambers stood the two Ukrainians, Ivan Demjaniuk and Nikolai, one of them armed with an iron bar, the other with a sword. Even they drove the people inside with blows…
One hideous feature of German legal standards is that, when it comes to “the Holocaust,” it pits human dignity against the right to search for the truth. According to this “logic,” the human dignity of all Jews – those who suffered back then and those who live today – depends on everyone accepting the orthodox Holocaust narrative. And since the protection of human dignity is the first and most important article in the German constitution, this has priority over everything else.
The traditional Holocaust story plays an enormous political, social and economic role in world affairs. It is as if the whole emotional, intellectual, and institutional set-up of the post World War II world has been built around it. It serves as an ideological "justification" for the sociopolitical arrangements in many parts of the world today. Despite the fact that it is a demonstrably weak and flimsy ideology, it has amazing resiliency. The major reason that the traditional Holocaust story still survives is because there are a wide range of powerful groups that benefit from its perpetuation.
The overarching insights conveyed by this account have to do with the historian’s stock in trade: time. In 1945, much was known concerning the Holocaust by the people who cared most about it, at least as concerns the mythology and hyperbole that constitutes its popular incarnation to this day. Awareness of the falsity of these has dawned but slowly, if at all, among this initial cohort of curators of the story, but it matters little today, as most of them are dead, or of very advanced age.
Polish writer Zofia Posmysz had been arrested in her late teens by the German occupation authorities, with three male comrades, for attending illegal meetings, and sent to Auschwitz in 1942, where she was quartered in a women's camp. Of course she and her fellow inmates were not gassed. Her novel is said to be based on her experiences there, and she attended the Chicago premiere of the opera.
First, let’s define what kind of evidence would be required to prove that the claimed mass murder has taken place. Most-important, this concerns traces of the victims or of the manner in which their bodies were disposed of. The orthodoxy claims that some 700,000 victims were buried within the camp and later exhumed and cremated on huge pyres. I will leave aside here the question as to how such a task could have been physically possible, for if the remains of 700,000 victims can be located, that feat obviously was possible somehow. Hence, we need to worry about the How only if we do not find the expected traces.
The final draft (Shn-6) was forwarded to foreign minister Molotov on 8 October 1945 (apparently not by Chvernik, but by ESC member I. P. Traynin). In his accompanying letter[81] Traynin pointed out that the text had been coordinated with ”comrade A. Ya. Vyshinsky“. Under these circumstances, it is highly probable that the decision not to publish the report after all was taken by Molotov himself. Circumstantial evidence suggests that the Soviet foreign minister contacted the president of the ESC, Chvernik, before his final decision. The ”Brown Portfolio“ contains a letter from Chvernik to Molotov[82] which was basically just a summary of the Sachsenhausen report and revealed nothing new. The end of the letter reads as follows:
“In late April or early May 1942, an SS team arrived in the Treblinka area, toured the region, and determined the site where a death camp would be erected. [...]. The construction of the death camp began in late May/early June 1942. [...]. In charge of the construction of Treblinka was  SS Obersturmführer Richard Thomalla, who had completed his building mission in Sobibor and had been replaced there by Stangl in April 1942. Technical assistance in the erection of the gas chambers was also made available.”
Q. Perhaps he wanted to bring you to a concentration camp?
Cyrus Cox states the primary reason for knowing that there were no homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau: “While there is an enormous presence of cyanide residue in the masonry of the disinfestation chambers, in the alleged homicidal gas chambers there is no significant presence at all.”[27] Pro-Holocaust historians have yet to provide a credible explanation why no significant presence of cyanide residue has been found in the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau.
"I asked how God could let the Holocaust of World War II happen. We were transported to a railway station as a long train of freight cars was being unloaded of its human cargo. The guards were screaming and beating the people into submission. The people were Jewish men, women, and children. Exhausted from hunger and thirst, they were totally disoriented from the ordeal of being rounded up and sent on a long journey to an unknown destination. They believed that they were going to work camps, and that their submission to the brutality of the guards was the only way to survive.
“Holocaust denial” is defined on Wikipedia as “the act of denying the genocide of Jews in World War II, usually referred to as the Holocaust.”[3] Three key claims are typically associated with the term: 1) The German National Socialist government had no official policy for exterminating Jews 2) Gas Chambers were not used for mass murder of Jews 3) the actual number of Jews killed was significantly less than six million. Many have credited Deborah Lipstadt if not for creating the term, then for popularizing it in her Denying the Holocaust (1994). Lipstadt calls Holocaust denial “anti-Semitic ideology” in her book. She also describes it as an “irrational phenomenon.”
In turn the prosecutor called three witnesses to the stand who testified that Roeder had made the comments in question. The prosecution raised additional objections to Roeder’s comments in respect to the “Holocaust,” when the latter asserted that he had spent time in the same cell with the former commandant of Auschwitz and asseverated, “Therefore I know what I am talking about.”
Today, R. M. is still alive and can attest to what I say here and which, in any case, is recorded in our correspondence. I must say that, thereafter, I maintained correspondence with Höttl. I suggested that he leave to posterity a piece of writing in which he might set the record straight. His response and the ensuing letters show a man decided on rejecting my suggestion but nonetheless troubled. In 1997 he published Einsatz für das Reich (In the Service of the Reich) (Koblenz, Verlag S. Buble). Curiously, in the section on “Eichmann and the Six Million” he showed himself discreet and evasive on the heart of the matter and even wrote: “The figure of 6 million seems, anyhow, to be magical” (Diese Zahl von 6 Millionen scheint irgendwie magisch zu sein) (p. 83). Some of his remarks were openly revisionist (pp. 82-85 and 420-423) but he took the precaution of ending with a profession of Holocaustic faith which I would describe as merely verbal. He died two years later at the age of 84. History will record his treachery. But Höttl may be granted consideration of mitigating circumstances: in the first place, on a personal level, had he refused to cooperate with the Americans he would have been consigned to the Hungarians, who would have hanged him; and he would have had to be a hero to defy the victors’ justice, the Jewish thought police and the religion of the “Holocaust,” which, in the 1980s, wrapped in an aura of sacred terror, was, little by little, to invade the entire Western world.
“The macabre transports of the Hungarians had started to arrive. In 3-4 weeks, the trains arrived day and night, and vomited their innocent cargo in the voracious mouths of the ovens of Birkenau. More than 800,000 new victims were thrown as prey to the Nazi beast during this time. The 60 mouths of hell were constantly devouring at the fastest possible rate.” (p. 106)
The historiography of the Auschwitz Museum, in its discussion of the origins of Birkenau camp, has remained anchored in the contradictory declarations attributed to Höss from the very outset, and as a result remains rather ambiguous. This historiography fits the origins of the camp into the presumed order to exterminate the Jews allegedly issued by Himmler to Höss in the summer of 1941, which was to have been carried out at Auschwitz, but only draws the logical consequence in an indirect manner. Franciszek Piper has in fact explicitly stated as follows:
Article originally published in French at http://robertfaurisson.blogspot.fr under the title Le 29 décembre 1978, « Le Monde » publiait, sous ma signature, « Le problème des chambres à gaz ou 'la rumeur d' Auschwitz » (20 August 2012).
Van Pelt compounds his errors by assuming that all camps require the same amount of Zyklon per prisoner, without considering regional differences in hygienic conditions. This allows us to return to the arguments made at the Tesch trial. In his first interrogation, Tesch remarked on the regional difference in the need for disinfestation, stating that “Eastern territories were particularly in danger of spotted fever”, although this was not said in the context of the EZS argument.[119] In his second surviving interrogation he made this point as well, this time in the EZS context, responding to the suggestion that the deliveries to the concentration camps were “a little strange” with a reference to the great danger of louse infestation in the east.[120]
Ignaz Bubis, the former chairman of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, expressed his satisfaction with the verdict and groaned that Deckert’s revisionist opinions constituted a direct attack upon Germany’s democratic constitution and urged other European nations to enact similar laws restricting freedom of speech for those who dared to publicly challenge the mainstream version of the “Holocaust.” Bubis admonished, “It is time for the European countries to busy themselves with this.”[45]
First published in German with the title "Ein Deutscher Soldat in Auschwitz und Buchenwald: Auszug aus meinen Lebenserinnerungen" in Vierteljahreshefte für freie Geschichtsforschung vol. 1, no. 4, 1997, pp. 263f. (http://www.vho.org/VffG/1997/4/Anonymus4.html)
Similar telegrams were sent to the Prime Ministers of the Dominions (Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa) retracting the earlier reference to “gas chambers”.
The questionable testimony of the survivors of the “death camps,” the miniscule remains of the camps themselves, and the very little documentation left by the Germans falsify Bishop Farrell’s claim that these forms of evidence prove the traditional view of the Holocaust and the death of six million Jews.
When William Blake writes that Jesus acted on impulse, not from thought, he means that Jesus's actions did not depend on his being obsequious before the ruling discourse of his day. Of course in Blake's view Jesus was good all the way through so his impulses were good so his acts were good. It pleases me to think that Jesus acted on impulse and not by the rules, because I think when push comes to shove that's what I do and that throws me in with good company. How good I am is another question. It's not one I can pass judgment on. Actually I think I'm a pretty swell guy. One irony here about impulse is that the professors can be seen to be acting on it too. They dismiss revisionist theory with a wave of the hand, holding that there can be no debate about the gas chambers because there can be no "other side" to the story. Only their side. Maybe it was something like this 200 years ago that drove Blake to conclude that education is the work of Satan.
Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of 'Truth' and 'Memory'
Except for the fact that the gassing description is pretty vague, the claim about furnaces working without fuel is so nonsensical that casts even more doubt that Nadjari ever worked in a crematorium.  In addition, it is a well-known fact that the ashes remaining form the cremation of a body amount to some 5% of the body’s original weight.[2] Assuming an average weight of 60 kg, the ashes would have amounted to some 3 kg, not just 640 grams. However, if the cremation remains had to be smashed and sieved, this indicates an incomplete cremation, hence an even larger amount of cremation remains.
The same kind of deception is committed by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum on its website (capitalization added):
In his concluding statement, Varela reiterated his innocence before the court, reaffirming that he had never committed, advocated, or otherwise promoted genocide or any other form of violence directed against innocent people.
“As for the third stage, the 35 meters long chamber-furnace was divided in two sections. The crematories were in the first section, which was the largest. The second, smaller section, was about 10 meters long and it had been converted to a luxurious chrome-plated paved bathroom.”
[30] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, pp. 101-102.
On 15 June 1943 the New York Times reported on a communiqué issued by the Belgian government in exile, according to which most of the Belgian Jews had been sent to concentration camps in Germany, Poland, and in the occupied Russian territories.
They all said it, didn’t they? Or all of those testifying under oath anyway, no? Or nobody said there weren’t any, did they? Certainly not under oath, eh? The weight of testimonial evidence in support of the existence and use of gas chambers in German wartime concentration camps seems to be as overwhelming as it could possibly be given that no one actually killed in a gas chamber could testify to having suffered that fate. For that, of course, we have the bodies. Or, at least the ashes, bones and teeth. Or, at least the steep declines in the “Jewish” populations of European countries and worldwide.[1]
This purpose meant that Holocaust would emphasize Jewish victimhood and the lack of safety for Jews living among non-Jews in general, rather than the specific villainy of the Germans. Although Holocaust represents many Germans as criminal brutes, the key German character in the drama, SS officer Erich Dorf, has no malice toward Jews but is simply an unprincipled careerist. It was this untrustworthiness of non-Jews in general that was supposed to make the State of Israel necessary.
Section 249 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure is of similar import. It allows the judge to stipulate that documents entered into evidence may not be read out in public. Instead, parties to the trial must read them in private. That is, they must take the documents home with them and read them in seclusion—or they must at least certify on the day designated for this that they have read them. Whether they really have, is not verified.
Aerial view of the Busk site, in the Lvov region, where 15 mass graves were found in an old Jewish cemetery. An expert report ordered by the Shoah Memorial in 2006 showed the presence of Jewish victims killed by German bullets between 1942 and 1943. At the request of the Shoah Memorial in August 2006 an expert report was drawn up under the responsibility of Yahad-in Unum, by Ukrainian archaeologists from the Civil Society for Research into War Victims [called] “Memory”, under the supervision of the Zaka organization, guarantor of respect for the bodies of the victims according to Jewish law.
What’s wrong with that? Smith managed to place hundreds of these ads in campus newspapers, followed up by radio interviews and even TV shows. That’s what caused the two mainstream historians mentioned by Dr. Lipstadt to worry and ask her to research the matter. In fact, the cover art of the 1993 hardcover edition features press clippings from media reactions which Bradley Smith triggered with his Campus Project, that is to say, his attempt to bring Holocaust revisionism to the attention of college and university students as well as professors throughout the United States.
Arguments advanced in support of enacting Holocaust denial laws are invariably weak and unconvincing. For example, Robert A. Kahn, author of the book Holocaust Denial and the Law: A Comparative Study, advanced the following arguments in defense of Holocaust denial laws, proclaiming that even in the United States, “freedom of speech is not unlimited.” According to Kahn:
The Einsatzgruppen trial was the ninth of 12 American-run trials held after the International Military Tribunal (IMT) at the Palace of Justice in Nuremberg, Germany. The trial was officially titled “The United States of America v. Otto Ohlendorf et al.” and lasted from September 29, 1947 to April 10, 1948. The court indicted 24 Einsatzgruppen leaders on three counts of criminality: crimes against humanity, war crimes, and membership in organizations declared criminal by the IMT. Only 22 defendants were tried because one committed suicide and another had to be excluded for health reasons.[1]
Finally, Jürgen Graf and Carlo Mattogno have discovered numerous documents in the Moscow archives illustrating not only the extent of German bureaucracy, but the unlikelihood of any Holocaust as well. As one example, I would like to cite the report from Dr. Horst Fischer to Dr. Eduard Wirths. In a letter dated 13 April 1943, the camp physician Dr. Fischer at Buna wrote to the garrison physician Dr. Wirths informing him of the arrival of 658 inmates at Auschwitz Camp. Of these 658 inmates, 109, after a thorough medical examination, were found to be unable to work. And of these 109 non-able-bodied inmates, 25 were sent to one of the rest and recovery wards at Buna, 33 were sent to the inmate infirmary at Buna, and 51 were transferred to the much better-equipped inmate hospital at Auschwitz I.
Kahn argues that “both of these policies are relevant to the Holocaust denial context.” Seeking to provide a rational argument for Germany’s rigid prosecution of “deniers,” he writes,
Since of the 46,591 Białystok District Jews deported “to the East” only a smaller part can be documented to have been sent to Auschwitz, the most likely conclusion is that many if not a majority of them were deported to the Occupied Eastern Territories without passing through any transit camp.
I met Carl Friedrich in a small room full of law books. He was worried about his father, who had been charged with war crimes by the Nuremberg tribunal. That was the only time I ever saw Carl Friedrich upset. He said, “If the Americans had come in and shot every tenth German, I could have understood it. I could have called it justice. The Americans had every reason to be angry. But I cannot accept ex post facto laws. They have nothing to do with justice.”[21]
As far back as 1985, Professor Cohen stated the dilemma in these terms. He says it is debatable how familiar the Prime Minister was with the Intelligence information regarding the alleged Nazi extermination camps, but by “July, 1944 at the very latest, Churchill was supplied by the Zionists with very precise details of the murderous capacity of Auschwitz.”[59] In light of this, Cohen asks, how should we interpret Churchill’s August 1946 denial of knowledge of the mass murder of Europe’s Jews during the war?[60]
“No. I don’t think it was ever thought there was a gas chamber in Belsen-Bergen. People were dying at 500 a day, by the way, a rate of 500 a day.”
We will observe here first of all that none of these quotes supports the allegation that Treblinka served as a “pure extermination camp”, only that an unspecified number of corpses were burnt there. Baxter tells his readers (p. 104) that Kratzer “visited the ‘Upper Camp’ and saw for himself the gas chambers, the installations for the disposal of the corpses and the huge iron grills, and the barracks for the Jewish work-groups.” This description, however, is completely unsourced, and no further quotations are presented which allow us to verify to what degree (if at all) it corresponds to what Kratzer actually wrote, and to what degree it is just Baxter’s conjecture. This in itself is extremely revealing, because Baxter must certainly be aware of the fact that, since virtually no war-time documents on Treblinka have been preserved (or rather: are known to exist) the discovery of an authentic contemporary diary text describing the camp, and moreover one written by a German staff officer (or possibly two different officers) with access to all parts of the camp, is something no less than sensational. One would expect that Baxter, instead of rehashing old material, would present these texts in full with commentaries – or at least any passages confirming the existence of homicidal gas chambers at the camp, thus refuting the “deniers” once and for all. In the introduction (p. 9) he in fact speaks of “recently discovered material, some of which has never been published before”. The latter can, as far as I am able to tell, only relate to the above discussed diary entries. One would thus expect Baxter to reproduce the entries in full (perhaps even in facsimile) instead of devoting five pages (pp. 151–155) to an irrelevant general list of concentration camps, eight pages to reproducing the transport lists from the appendices to Arad’s Belzec, Sobibor, Treblinka, or 16 pages to miniature biographies of camp staff lifted almost verbatim from the ARC website (which, to Baxter’s credit, he at least attributed). But no, Baxter is content with presenting only the three quotes above. We may safely assume that Baxter (or his colleague Reuss) would have jumped eagerly at the opportunity to  publish a contemporary German document (be it a memorandum or a diary) describing homicidal gas chambers and/or mass graves filled to the brim with hundreds of thousands of Jewish corpses at Treblinka if he had in fact access to such a document, which means with almost 100 % certainty that he (or Reuss) does not have such a document in his hands. This in effect leaves only two possible conclusions:
So they admit indirectly that their data isn’t just about murder. Their generous definition of Holocaust victims encompasses evidently also those who surely died but not by way of outright murder. More still, just because a relative or friend claims that someone was murdered doesn’t make that murder a certainty. The questionable method used by Yad Vashem results from the answer to a question about the Lodz Ghetto:
Forensic evidence indicates that the Aktion Reinhardt camps were not extermination camps. A detailed forensic examination at the Treblinka Camp using sophisticated electronic ground radar found no evidence of mass graves. The Australian team that carried out this forensic examination at the Treblinka Camp was headed by Richard Krege, a qualified electronics engineer. Krege’s team used an $80,000 Ground Penetration Radar (GPR) device, which sends out vertical signals whose returns are visible on a computer monitor. GPR devices are routinely used around the world by geologists, archaeologists and police. GPR detects any major disturbances in the soil to a normal effective depth of four to five meters depending on conditions.
It is most unfortunate that Heinrich Himmler was a “suicide” while in British captivity. However, since Himmler was in a position to know the true story of the alleged Holocaust, it was not within the bounds of political possibility that Himmler live to testify at the Nuremberg trials.[11]
Q. Have you seen the gas chamber working?
Refusing to retract his previous statements, Irving defiantly declared to the presiding judge, “I have found not one piece of evidence that there are gas chambers at Auschwitz.”[18]
After all the concentration camps and alleged extermination camps were captured, the Anglo-American line continued to be that the evil Germans had mass-murdered a great diversity of victims because they were not German or because they disagreed with evil Nazi doctrine, Jews being at most a significant element within that diversity of victims.
39. An elderly Jewish man arriving at Auschwitz, May/June 1944.
[T]he discoloration on the outside of walls [of the delousing chambers], ought to make one consider what possible processes could have taken place outside of the delousing chambers. For example, is it possible that materials that had been soaked with aqueous solutions of HCN were leaned against the outside of the buildings? Not enough is known, but it is premature to conclude that the staining on the outside of buildings owes its origins to processes that took place within those buildings.[9]
From the experience gathered with FMD incinerations, anyone can easily see that in terms of logistics, time, fuel, space etc. the material demands for the open-air incineration of 10,000 human corpses a day (as some witnesses would have us believe) would be so enormous as to exceed by far the capabilities of the Auschwitz camp administration. By itself, the fuel needed, about 3,000 cubic meters (some 1,000 cords) of dry wood, would have required the availability of a fleet of thirty 10-ton trucks, if each truck is assumed to have made ten trips a day (including loading and unloading), to say nothing of the source and the supply of (dry) wood that have never been described, or the way in which it was handled at the camp – or paid for, for that matter.
[1] Van Pelt, Robert Jan, The Case for Auschwitz: Evidence from the Irving Trial, Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press, 2002, pp. 188, 204-205.
Furthermore, why were only Jews and not also gypsies sent into the gas chamber? In fact, the orthodox, heavily flawed narrative has it that all gypsies admitted to Auschwitz were eventually gassed.[3] And if only Jews were selected to work in the crematorium, how come he worked there? And finally, how did he survive, if these workers were “finished” off after “three or four months”?
The pre-eminent Holocaust authority, the late Raul Hilberg, engaged in “Holocaust denial.” He denied that 250,000 people were murdered at Sobibor. In the 1985 edition of his magnum opus, he reduced this figure by twenty percent, as he claimed that up to 200,000 people were slaughtered. In the final 2003 edition, his “Holocaust denial” reached new heights of outrage. He says the number supposedly murdered was “over 150,000.” [84]
In the spring of 1987, Mr. Bacque and I met in Washington. Over the following months, we worked together in the National Archives and in the George C. Marshall Foundation in Lexington, Virginia, piecing together the evidence we uncovered. The plans made at the highest levels of the U.S. and British governments in 1944 expressed a determination to destroy Germany as a world power once and for all by reducing her to a peasant economy, although this would mean the starvation of millions of civilians. Up until now, historians have agreed that the Allied leaders soon canceled their destructive plans because of public resistance.
Joseph Pulitzer, a German-American in the heavily German-American city of St. Louis, was so incensed by what he saw at the camps that he launched a campaign of public education. Pulitzer sought to dispel the belief in America that this talk of German atrocities was mostly propaganda. In cooperation with the federal government, Pulitzer’s St. Louis Post-Dispatch conducted an exhibition of life-size photomurals made from the Signal Corps photographs of the camps. The photo exhibit was coupled with the showing of an hour-long motion picture documentary on the camps produced by the Signal Corps.[10] Soon virtually everyone in the civilized world had seen pictures of the horrific conditions in the German concentration camps.
Indeed the effort to revise the history of World War Two is met with suspicion, ad-hominem attacks, threats, and even imprisonment. For all the trouble that one can find by questioning the wartime mythology, this pales by comparison with the opposition which is met when reconsidering the Holocaust.
In this connection, an asylum case is of interest that was mentioned in an article by Ingo Müller in the German journal Kritische Vierteljahresschrift für Gesetzgebung und Rechtswissenschaft (Critical Quarterly of Legislation and Jurisprudence). It had to do with the Turkish defense lawyer Şerafettin Kaya, here a more recent portrait of him, who in the early 1980s fled to Germany and there sought asylum from persecution by Turkish military tribunals. In his application for asylum, Kaya portrayed the Turkish military criminal law as unmistakably repressive, meaning that trials conducted by it automatically ought to be considered persecutorial in nature. The German federal agency for the recognition of foreign refugees nonetheless denied Kaya asylum in 1982 with the following justification, quote:[5]
Sounding a familiar note of alarm, Jones opined that, “One of the most insidious and evil forms of anti-Jewish racism is the claim that the Holocaust never occurred and that the ‘Christian West’ has been the victim of moral blackmail and financial extortion. This argument is not only offensive to students of history and all Australians concerned with truth and knowledge, but has as its underlying logic a world view in which Jewish people are dishonest, deceitful, and perpetrators of massive fraud.”[6]
In other words, the Holocausters prop up the myth in order to control our beliefs on a vast assortment of topics—for example, when they compel us, lest we should want another Holocaust, to drop a few more bombs on Lebanon, c/o Israel. Thus Rollins understands that the Holocaust is not simply the murder of six million Jews. If it were only a simple historical event, school kids would remember it about as well as they remember the capital of North Dakota. Their middle school history teachers would have simply chalked it on the board before moving on to the Kennedy assassination. Yet the Holocaust has become a political, propagandized public memory campaign that affects people’s lives all across the world, not just wherever the Simon Wiesenthal Center maintains offices (LA, New York, Toronto, Paris, Buenos Aires, Jerusalem, and—you guessed it—Boca Raton). The American-Israeli alliance, which derives its impetus from the Holocaust campaign, inflames international relations on a global scale. After all, who could disagree with Alan Dershowitz when he argues that it is the long-suffering Jews’ “natural right” to have a tiny homeland carved out of the modern Middle East?
Historians claim that almost all Jews deported to Treblinka were gassed, because there was no selection between those able to work and the unfit as at Auschwitz; the SS spared only the lives of a few to help them with their sinister work and then killed them at the end of the operation of the camp.
“When the people arrived at the basement, they were told that they would have a shower, so to disinfect them and their clothes. Then they would enter a room with showers, in which the only visible thing was a fake spout nailed on the ceiling. They all had to undress. For reasons of decency, women and children entered first, then men. When a group was ready, the door of the anteroom was opened, which was 16 m2. That room led from the shower to the gas chamber.”
Images such as this and many others employed by supporters of the regnant wartime propaganda Holocaust meme have a very emotional effect. They are used to stir people into a frenzy. Soon such indiscriminate readers ask questions like, “How can such ideas be allowed to be sold?” “How can the Holocaust be debated?” “Why are deniers not in prison?” “Why aren’t their offices burned?” “Why are they not beaten?” “Why, like the disease-bearing rats they are, are they not exterminated?” Such is the state of Holocaust hate speech today.
Photo 2: Auschwitz museum entrance
Much has also been said about the early concentration camps, but even here, despite excesses that probably occurred and figures that went unreported as a result, the numbers of political opponents arrested and detained in the 1933-34 period was, from what we do know, considerably marginal, and after this early period, it was absolutely negligible. Martin Broszat, the former director of the Munich-based Institut für Zeitgeschichte (Institute of Contemporary History), the official German body representing government research on the National-Socialist period since 1949, commented that, “compared with the dimensions to which the concentration camps grew in the second half of the war, their importance before 1939 may seem small and almost inoffensive.”[27] Indeed, the facts thoroughly bear this out.
denial of the Holocaust is not a threat just to Jewish history but a threat to all who believe in the ultimate power of reason. It repudiates reasoned discussion the way the Holocaust repudiated civilized values. It is undeniably a form of antisemitism, and as such it constitutes an attack on the most basic values of a reasoned society. Like any form of prejudice, it is an irrational animus that cannot be countered with the normal forces of investigation, argument, and debate. The deniers’ arguments are at their roots not only antisemitic and anti-intellectual but, in the words of historian Charles Maier, ‘blatantly racist anthropology.’ Holocaust denial is the apotheosis of irrationalism. (p. 20)
“This ‘forensic turn’ in negationism, exemplified by the infamous Leuchter report and its tests of cyanide traces in the ruins of the gas chambers of Birkenau, marked a shift from the pseudohistory of Rassinier and Faurisson towards pseudoscientific argumentation. After the errors of the Leuchter report were swiftly exposed, German negationists tried to improve on the gambit with a new forensic report by a young German doctoral student of chemistry, Germar Rudolf, whose ‘Rudolf Report’ helped sustain a prolonged propaganda offensive in reunified Germany during the first half of the 1990s.” (p. 37)
“At that time I was completely convinced that the Jews were to be resettled in another settlement area [Wohngebiet] in the Auschwitz region [Raum Auschwitz]. In the official correspondence from that time only ‘resettlement’ [Umsiedlung] was ever mentioned. The thought that the Jews were killed never struck me even once, as in my view they constituted an important factor in the armaments industry.” [49]
Lipstadt points out that world famous “Nazi Hunter” Simon Wiesenthal (1908-2005) exaggerated his role in the Eichmann capture (pp. 5-8). However, she is even more disturbed about Wiesenthal’s lies about Holocaust history, which others have also brought to the public’s attention. To prevent any misunderstanding, we will let Lipstadt tell the story:
In addition, the Holocaust mythology is used as an ideological weapon against scientific theories that postulate genetics as playing an important role in determining behavioral differences between individuals and racial groups.[89] Once again, we quote Joseph Graves Jr.: “Certainly, eugenics has to take some responsibility for the Holocaust.”[90]
It should be clear that while McGowan is claiming to raise legitimate historical and free speech issues, Holocaust denial has a history of being no more that thinly veiled anti-Semitism. When historians talk about the Holocaust what they mean is that approximately six million Jews and several millions of others were killed in an intentional and systematic fashion by the Nazis using a number of different means, including death by shooting and in gas chambers. This is the position held universally by scholars. The Holocaust deniers reject the historicity of the Holocaust based on three types of assertions. They reject the number of 6 million, the existence of killing camps, and the element of intentionality.
[4] Martin, James J., The Man Who Invented ‘Genocide’: The Public Career and Consequences of Raphael Lemkin, Torrance, Cal.: Institute for Historical Review, 1984, p. 174.
The problem with this claim is that a detailed revisionist study of Lipstadt’s book shows precisely that these characterizations fit Lipstadt’s own book perfectly: She is the one who uses “questionable pseudo-analytical methods” in order “to falsify the historical record,” “and techniques through which” she “deliberately misrepresents empirical archival evidence.”
THE PRESIDENT: Of course, there is no such evidence as you claim, Mr. Logan. We will, at the proper time, pass judgement on the evidence we’ve heard [...]
While I make no apology for assigning Crowell plenipotentiary status in this arena, I realize it may be considered bad form since I am his publisher. Let this be my disclaimer, then, if such be warranted. I may be biased, but I am convinced that the importance of Crowell’s research has not been fully appreciated, and I think that his concise but granular study of extant documents hovering around the AR camp system are relevant and need to be considered along with the forensic and testimonial issues that revisionists will likely raise in counterpoint to Cole’s argument. In any case, when you grapple with informed disagreement, it is wise to seek out what philosophers of knowledge call “epistemic peers,” if only as a safeguard against the conceit of certitude, and I think the views of Crowell and Cole can be usefully considered as a proximate peerage; they’re intelligent men evaluating the same evidentiary chain, presumably in good faith, yet reaching different conclusions.
Now what has the Sachsenhausen report of the ESC to say about ”shooting rooms?“ The first draft (Shn-1) does not mention any shooting rooms or any neck-shooting facility in the crematorium but claims instead that executions took place in the shooting ditch[63]:
Remark: Apart from the fact that a careful reading of the “minutes” of the Berlin-Wannsee meeting of January 20, 1942 proves that the Germans envisaged a “territorial final solution [eine territoriale Endlösung] of the Jewish question” in a geographical space to be determined, Yehuda Bauer’s quite belated declaration confirms that this major point of the case alleging the extermination of the Jews is in fact worthless. Let us add, in our turn, that the extermination of the Jews was decided on neither at Wannsee nor anywhere else; the expression “extermination camps” is but an invention of American war propaganda and there are examples proving that, during that war, the killing of a single Jewish man or woman exposed the perpetrator, whether soldier or civilian, member of the SS or not, to German military justice proceedings and the possibility of being shot by firing squad (in sixty years, never has a sole orthodox historian provided an explanation for such facts, revealed by the defence before the Nuremberg tribunal itself).
Paul Sakowski, born in 1920, was the son of a Communist functionary from Breslau. When he was deported to Sachsenhausen, he was just 18 years old, which made him the youngest political prisoner. His older Communist fellow-inmates, who had known his father, took Paul under their wing. After a brawl he was first locked up in the camp prison and then employed as a worker in the crematorium. Although he had not volunteered for the job of a hangman, the other prisoners, especially the Communists, resented him for his “collaboration with the Fascists” (“Other young prisoners would rather have hanged themselves!”). After the war, the Soviets branded him as the “hangman of Sachsenhausen”, and at the Sachsenhausen Trial in Berlin, he - the petty crematorium worker - was put in the dock together with the former SS leaders – a truly grotesque situation!
According to this logic, the more scientific and scholarly, unemotional and serious, hence factual and well-founded a speech is, the more likely it is to incite to hatred. That’s the way the orthodox Holocaust establishment looks at Holocaust revisionism. If we were to apply this approach correspondingly, Charles Darwin’s research would deserve to be burned at the stake, and Darwin probably alongside with it. That’s the kind of anti-intellectual and anti-scientific attitude which endangers modern society at large, as Carl Sagan has correctly observed.[8]
A set of documents has been preserved showing the quantities of coke delivered to Auschwitz/Birkenau in the period from February 1942 to October 1943. These documents show that the new crematories at Birkenau weren’t used as intensively as the old one at the Auschwitz main camp, and that there was not enough fuel delivered to cremate the additional hundreds of thousands of corpses claimed to have accrued at Auschwitz/Birkenau. These documents also show that coke deliveries starting in March 1943 approximately match the numbers of dead reported in the Auschwitz/Birkenau Death Books. [20]
What Kennedy told me in this conversation jibes substantially with the remarks Clarence Dillon had made to me already, to the general effect that Roosevelt had asked him in some manner to communicate privately with the British to the end that Chamberlain should have greater firmness in his dealings with Germany. Dillon told me that at Roosevelt’s request he had talked with Lord Lothian in the same general sense as Kennedy reported Roosevelt having urged him to do with Chamberlain. Lothian presumably was to communicate to Chamberlain the gist of his conversation with Dillon.
The year 1997 raised new challenges to civil liberties throughout Europe. In Paris, Jean-Marie Le Pen, the popular leader of the National Front, was charged with and convicted of “the crime of denying Nazi crimes against humanity” when he dismissed the gas chambers of World War two as a “detail in history” during the course of an interview in Munich, Germany.[20]
This also applies to the head of the Majdanek technical department, a man by the name of Friedrich W. Ruppert, who asserted that the “selections of the Warsaw Jews for extermination” were based on orders issued by Globocnik who “inspected the camp on a number of occasions and who was particularly interested in the gas chambers”. The fact that Kranz has to take recourse to such dubious confessions, probably extracted under duress, shows the paucity of evidence he was facing.
- Chamber VII in the new crematorium, claimed to have been used for killings by means of Zyklon-B, does not show any blue stains on its walls, which rules out the use of hydrocyanic acid at this site[9].
Lipstadt’s case became so famous – or was considered so important to and by the mainstream – that her own account of the trial as published in her book History on Trial: My Day in Court with a Holocaust Denier[6] has been turned into a movie which was released in September 2016; parallel to this, her book telling the story of the trial was reissued under the same title as the movie: Denial: Holocaust History on Trial.[7]
Hess was convicted by the Nuremberg Tribunal on the single count of “crimes against peace” and sentenced to life imprisonment. Soviet Gen. Vasily Sokolovsky, a member of the four-man Allied Control Council in Berlin, attempted to obtain a death sentence for Hess instead of life imprisonment, arguing that Hess was “responsible for all the crimes committed by the Nazi regime.” The other Control Council members rejected Sokolovsky’s request.[29]
Already in 1994, the Spanish revisionist Enrique Aynat published a booklet that contains a critical article on the way Danuta Czech determined the fate of the Jews deported from France and Belgium to Auschwitz in 1942.[3] He pointed out that the only source Czech relied upon regarding arrivals at Auschwitz were handwritten lists of registration numbers assigned to the deportees which were clandestinely compiled by inmates and smuggled out of the camp in 1944. These lists contain the date of an arriving transport, the registration numbers assigned to male and female deportees, and in many but not all cases the location whence these transports had come. It is not known how reliable these lists are. After all, they were compiled by individuals naturally hostile to their captors. It is important to emphasize, however, that these lists do not contain any information about inmates arriving at the camp who were not registered, and if such deportees existed, what their fates were.
Let us return to Olère’s drawing. Starting with the freight elevator, along the walls of the oven room with the windows, on the pavement, there ran a wet slide approximately a meter and half wide[183]. On top of this there are no bodies; a pile of bodies does appear instead between the slide and the ovens. In reality, this slide existed in Crematorium II. In the oven room, in front of each muffle, in the pavement, three pairs of rails were originally installed, linked to two oven-loading rails (Gleis zur Beschickung der Öfen), arranged perpendicularly to the first, right up to the freight elevator (Aufzug). Along the rails, there ran the corpse-insertion cart, which was called "Sarg-Einführungs-Vorrichtung", a device for the introduction of the coffin. In March 1943, it was decided to replace this device with more practical "body stretchers" (Leichentragen)[184]. The ruins of the oven room at Crematorium II still exhibit the rails located in front of the muffles; the loading rails which travelled to the freight elevator were, by contrast, torn up and the various grooves in which they were lodged mark out precisely a strip of concrete which appears to be a slide. In Crematorium III, it was decided, starting at the end of September 1942, to replace the body-loading cart with stretchers[185]; therefore no rails were installed in the oven room and there was no "slide" in front of the freight elevator.
Nearly all of the Dutch Jews who had been transferred from Sobibor to another camp returned home by way of Auschwitz-Birkenau. The survival of these Dutch Jews proves that Sobibor was not used solely as an extermination camp.[13]
The ultimate irony is that Orwell’s “grimacing screaming lunatics” come from the ranks of those who profess to uphold the “official” Holocaust story. If toleration is indeed the moral of the story, these champions of orthodoxy either fail to comprehend it, or they openly choose to deny it.
The testimony of Rommel’s close friend and associate, Gen. Hans Speidel, was also extremely damaging to Rommel. Hitler was correctly convinced that Speidel was guilty, but Speidel’s superior intellect rescued him time and time again. After the Gestapo interrogations of Speidel were complete, the army’s Court of Honor was specially reconvened to hear the evidence against Speidel. Lt. Gen. Heinrich Kircheim’s sworn affidavit of the hearing recorded Gestapo Chief Ernst Kaltenbrunner as stating:
The new crematorium was built as a consequence of the epidemic of typhus which had broken out in mid-November 1941 and had led to putting the camp under quarantine. Reportedly a neck-shooting facility was installed in the new crematorium from the very beginning. The Soviet experts from the Technical Commission who inspected the (still intact) crematorium in May/June 1945 described the ”shooting rooms“ (комнаты для расстрела) as if they had seen them in operation with their own eyes [61]. According to the experts, the unsuspecting victims had to stand under a measuring rod. Like the adjacent wall, this rod had a vertical slit through which an executioner standing in the adjacent room killed the victim by a shot in the neck. This slit in the wall (“embrasure,” Russ. ambrasura) is quoted in the Technical Report as key evidence for the murderous purpose of these rooms.
At least one document exists mentioning the use of this substance. It is from 26 July 1944, and headlined “Inmate Infirmary BII/a. Auschwitz II. Monthly report on the H[ungarian]. Jews temporarily accommodated in the camp.” (“HKB Ambulanz BII/a. Auschwitz II. Monatsbericht über vorübergehend im Lager untergebrachte u[ngarische]. Juden”), which reads (some of the text is illegible; GARF, 7021-108-32, p. 76):
Have Jews played a disproportionate role in war and social conflict—a role typically not of peacemakers and reconcilers, but of instigators and profiteers? Let us very briefly review some historical evidence to answer this charge; it provides relevant insight into Jewish influences during both world wars.
On July 29, 1948, the court reconvened to read its opinion and sentence the guilty. All defendants were found not guilty of Counts One and Four charging defendants with the preparation, initiation and waging of wars of aggression and conspiracy. The court stated: “The prosecution…is confronted with the difficulty of establishing knowledge on the part of defendants, not only of the rearmament of Germany but also that the purpose of rearmament was to wage aggressive war. In this sphere, the evidence degenerates from proof to mere conjecture.”[15]
In the interview published by "Il Giornale", Venezia described his first workday in the so-called "Sonderkommando" without mentioning at all the anecdote relating to the crematorium:
Kahn triumphantly proclaims that “Holocaust denial laws” are a “signal that society has taken a stand against hate” and “does not depend on imprisoning deniers.”
Shall we first hear [verhören, translation should be ‘interrogate’] your wife about [what Drosihn had heard about Auschwitz]? We want to spare her this.
To be sure there has been investigation and debate over the events surrounding the attack on Pearl Harbor. While the official position has always been one of a sneak attack, a number of revisionist historians have amassed evidence that Roosevelt knew in advance of the attack and even maneuvered the Japanese into striking the first blow, so that he could use the event as a backdoor to the war in Europe. Likewise, revisionists from Harry Barnes to Gore Vidal have questioned the necessity of the two atomic bombings of Japan. To save hundreds of thousands of American lives by preventing a ground assault of Japan, Truman ordered the atom bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, or so the court historians tell us. Revisionists counter that scenario by pointing out that the Japanese had already made peace overtures and that the strikes were a means of intimidating the Soviets.
Others, however, rebuked the Government for its handling of the preparations for and mode of presentation of the bill. Mrs. Sullivan (the member for Moncrieff) commented on “the unseemly haste with which this bill is being pushed through this chamber.”[7] Ms. Worth (the member for Adelaide) added: “The fact that the Coalition and the community have been given less than a week to discuss the [bill] is indicative of a government which has little regard left for the opinions of the wider community and the due process of the Parliament.”[8] Mr. Cobb (the member for Parkes) stated: “The previous speaker says that we have had plenty of time to look at it because we knew it was coming. Sure we knew it was coming, but we did not know which form it would take….. The Australian people have also not been largely consulted on it.”[9]
“My greatest debt is to the survivors and witnesses who have given their testimony and allowed the use of tapes and photographs. To survivors in particular, I’d like to say what a privilege it has been to record and present your voices. I realise that each voice deserves its own book, and for every voice presented here, there are hundreds of others of equal worth and interest. The good thing is that they are all preserved for posterity in the Sound Archive, potent evidence against Holocaust denial.” (p. xvi)
Finally it should be noted that while Gerlach is familiar with Isak Grünberg's testimony[83], he refrains from mentioning that this eyewitness spoke about convoys from Auschwitz and hinted at transports from Theresienstadt via Treblinka in October 1942. Significantly Gerlach devotes another subchapter of his book[84] to presenting a large number of testimonies about the presence of Dutch, French and Polish Jews in Minsk and other locations in Belarus, without going into any detail as to how these Jews arrived there – clearly because this would lead to the uncomfortable conclusion that they were sent there via the “extermination camps” in Poland. As for the presence of Polish Jews in Trostenets we learn:
It remains to be seen whether the Holocaust Lobbyists will harass Prof. Douglas for ‘relativism’ in regard to Orderly and Humane. It is more likely that such a reaction would be seen as counter-productive and the book best ignored. However, the fact remains that Orderly and Humane, albeit of necessity at the moment judged only by the Yale University Press description, is an example of ‘Holocaust relativism’. As mentioned, Lipstadt gives much attention to this ‘relativism’ in Denying the Holocaust, and opines that it is the logical strategic direction for ‘Holocaust deniers’, with Chapter 11 being devoted to the subject. Lipstadt castigates socialist historian Dr Harry Elmer Barnes, for example, for ‘relativising the Holocaust’, and the issue of German atrocities in general, by claiming that they were no worse than Allied atrocities; indeed, less so.[27] Concerned that this ‘relativism’ undermines Germany’s guilt complex and its ‘moral obligation to welcome all those who seek refuge’, she condemns German historian Ernst Nolte as coming ‘dangerously close to validating the deniers’ in his work The European Civil War 1917-1945, because he states that ‘more “Aryans” than Jews were killed at Auschwitz’.[28] Lipstadt explains:
1c - Camp elders who committed offenses against other inmates at Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen. [This heading is in Dutch, not in German. In Bischoff’s version the second part of the sentence is crossed out by hand; apparently Bischoff did not share the opinion of the Communists about the respective camp elders.
The tag number “Pol 51628” mentioned in this letter matches the licence plate of the truck on Friedländer’s photomontage. Furthermore the two vehicles visible on the photograph seem to corroborate eyewitness accounts according to which an automobile of the brand “Adler” and a police truck had been used. So in order to illustrate the “gas chamber of Belzec” Friedländer availed himself of the very same photograph which had been submitted to the German justice as evidence for the Mogilev killing in 1961. This proves that his photomontage is a complete forgery.
The second point is Rassinier's pioneer analysis of Höss's memoirs. Here is reached a milestone in the development of Holocaust revisionism, namely the emergence of a discussion on the technical feasibility of the alleged mass gassings. This new focus would naturally give the revisionists an upper hand, as the early Holocaust historians had not at all considered the physical reality behind their claims.
It was in 2003 that the American Don Heddesheimer, a lawyer by profession, revealed to us that the myth of the Six Million had arisen from the most sordid source imaginable: from 1900 (and perhaps even earlier) certain Jews in New York had made up and launched a lucrative advertising slogan that allowed them to collect millions of dollars through fundraising campaigns. The slogan they devised was of two short sentences: “At this time millions of our brothers are dying in Europe. Give us money to come to their aid.” In general, those European Jews were supposed to number “five million” or “more than five million” or, especially, “six million.” Depending on the circumstances and periods, the Jews’ killers were presented as being the Russians, the Ukrainians, the Tsars, the Poles, ... (The First Holocaust / Jewish Fund-Raising Campaigns with Holocaust Claims during and after World War One, Preface by Germar Rudolf, Theses & Dissertations Press, Chicago, October 2003, p. 144). The newspaper contributing most to the dissemination of slogans peculiar to such campaigns was the New York Times. One of the most active personalities involved was Rabbi Stephen Wise (1874-1949), a friend, successively, of Presidents Wilson and, especially, F. D. Roosevelt; founder of the World Jewish Congress, he was a militant Zionist.
Conversely, facts that prove that the Third Reich never had a policy of physical extermination of the Jews are not wanting. Even on the Eastern Front, the killing of an innocent Jewish civilian was punishable by severe sanctions, including the death penalty. The German courts martial were capable of punishing those guilty of any sort of excess against Jews. Examples abound of measures taken, in the camps and elsewhere, to protect Jews against the excesses characteristic of all contexts of imprisonment, as well as against the ravages of disease. The Germans were haunted by a fear of disorder, of contagion and epidemics, of loss of manpower; even at Auschwitz there were training centers for Jewish youth in various manual trades. Millions of Jews, despite the great bloodshed that a Europe at war was experiencing and despite the apocalypse of a Germany pulverized by the systematic Allied bombing, survived the war. They call themselves “survivors,” owing their lives to “miracles,” and still today make up the membership of associations with a pronounced appetite for financial reparations. Even now, fifty-nine years after the war, their number is estimated at 687,900 (recent estimate by the demographer Jacob Ukeles of New York, according to an article by Amiram Barkat, “U.S. Court to discuss issue of who is a Holocaust survivor,” Haaretz, April 18, 2004). During the war, Jewish leaders made alarming statements about an on-going extermination of the Jews, but their conduct showed that they did not really believe their own words. The Allied chiefs saw that they were dealing at times with Jews seeking “to stoke us up.” And then, the “Brown Jews” of “the Jewish international of collaboration” were not absent from the scene. Zionists and National Socialists had, to a certain extent, the same worldview; whence, in 1941, the Stern Group’s offer to Germany of a military collaboration against the British. As late as April 21, 1945, a representative of the World Jewish Congress, Norbert Masur, was received by Himmler to discuss the matter of Jews to be handed over to the Allies.
[29] Mattogno, Carlo, “Dr. Mengele’s ‘Medical Experiments’ on Twins in the Birkenau Gypsy Camp,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 5, No. 4, 2013 https://inconvenienthistory.com/5/4/3223.
Once again, they “somehow” knew. But Ernst Levin who was also deported to Auschwitz in January 1943, has a few more things to say (pp. 73-75):
None of this is intended to belittle the anguish of any civilian communities that suffered during the war. But sympathy with their suffering is not mutually exclusive with a belief that their suffering has been propagandized for political purposes. An interesting exercise, for comparison, is to set the Holocaust to one side and consider the other 60 million or so deaths of World War Two, for a moment. According to various sources,[30] 47 million civilians died in the war. Of these, 20 million died due to war-related famine and disease. This is worth taking a few moments to consider. One is faced with the idea that inmates in concentration camps and other civilians in German-occupied areas, especially Jewish ghettoes, starved, according to the Nuremberg prosecutors, because of a racist plan to exterminate. Yet millions of other Europeans starved at the same time and in similar areas simply because huge wars are a horrible mess and the prevailing conditions were such that destitution, hunger and homelessness were rife. Of course it could be argued that the ‘mess’ in Nazi occupied areas was the fault of the Nazis themselves, but one cannot help but see a double standard.
For several decades now, Friedrich Berg has started arguments with fellow revisionists about certain technical issues of relevance to the orthodox Holocaust narrative. Usually these arguments were hidden from public view, as they took place mainly in email exchanges between the parties involved and some bystanders Berg tried to drag into the fray. The last of these exchanges—with Robert Faurisson and Fred Leuchter as his main adversaries—took place only a few weeks before writing these lines. It had been triggered by Berg’s having read for the first time my critical edition of the Leuchter Report – ten years after its first edition had been published. I spare the reader the details of this or earlier polemic altercations, in particular since Berg's language is often disrespectful and abusive.
Thus, the undocumented and imaginary Aktion 1005 supported by Longerich and other historians provides no evidence of a German program of genocide against Jews.
A mere couple of weeks later, the NA put this judgement up on its own Website! We know this because Martin Allen wrote a letter of inquiry to the NA on 12th July 2005– which the NA have lost, or it is not in their file containing all its debate over this issue. He was sent a reply on 22nd: “As you will have noted from the TNA website, these have been confirmed as forgeries following forensic examination.” (Translation: one woman shown four letters looked at them for five days, then agreed with the journalist who showed them to her, that they were probably forgeries.) That reply silenced Allen – as it was probably intended to – and we hear no more from him. But the NA’s putting so definite and formal a statement up on its own website is a rather pre-emptive act that greatly undermines the appearance of objectivity of a forensic analysis by its own experts, does it not? They would not report until September.
"It does no honor to the millions of Jews murdered in the Holocaust to play politics with their memory. Any fair reading of the White House statement on International Holocaust Remembrance Day will see it appropriately commemorates the suffering and the heroism that mark that dark chapter in modern history.” (World Jewish Congress, 28 January 2017)
Finally, the existence of shooting rooms in the crematorium is highly dubious; the fact that such rooms figure on the Soviet blueprint proves nothing. German prisoners of the Soviet ”Spezlag“ (special camp) No. 1 have testified that they were forced to build such a facility under Russian supervision (Gerhart Schirmer[80]). For reasons of space we cannot discuss this topic here. At any rate it is highly significant that none of the various ESC drafts about Sachsenhausen mentions any shooting rooms in the crematorium.
If Pope John Paul II had real moral integrity on this issue, he would have publicly apologized for lending his moral authority to a falsehood and misleading his flock. At the very least, he should have shown moral integrity by publicly admitting that the Auschwitz death toll of four million is a gross exaggeration.
For any organization or official to believe that there are differing sides to the Armenian Genocide is as much an outrage as it would be for Germany to say that the work of Jewish scholars, witnesses, and victim testimonies represented merely the 'Jewish side' of the Holocaust.[26]
As noted above, Gerlach attributes "an estimated capacity" of 3,000 bodes per day to the 4 ovens, [each] with 8 muffles (for a total of 32 muffles), intended for Mogilev. What is the source of this estimate? Gerlach, in support of this claim, refers to pages 34 and 40 of Pressac's book, Die Krematorien von Auschwitz (The Crematoria of Auschwitz, note 14 on p. 71). But Pressac says nothing here about the crematory capacity of the Mogilev ovens. Rather, he adduces the presumed crematory capacity of the 2 ovens. [Each] with 8 muffles (for a total 16 muffles), installed in crematoria IV and V at Birkenau, making a distinction between theoretical capacity, 768 bodies per day each, and the "effective" capacity of 500 bodies.[9] Gerlach therefore uses the theoretical figure instead of the "effective" one: 768 x 4 = 3,072 or approximately 3,000.
The tubing shown in the American documentary is really impressive. Such heavy tubing with cast-iron hand valves are commonly used for piping large amounts of chemical liquids or pressurized gas. The design of this tubing was investigated by the French officer Capitaine Fribourg a week after the camp’s liberation. Here is a sketch drawn by him showing how the piping worked. According to this, fresh air was sucked in through this intake vent, which protrudes through the roof. This intake pipe is subsequently led through a heat exchanger located over the gas chamber in the building’s attic. Here, the air is heated by the building’s hot-water heating system. After that, the now-insulated pipe is split into two and led out of the attic area into the room behind the gas chamber, where both pipes are led in a semi-circle, each of which equipped with the hand valves shown. Leading back into the attic area over the gas chamber, Fribourg shows the pipes being merged back into the outgoing pipe, but that would make no sense at all, because then the air would go nowhere. Therefore, that’s a mistake. In fact, a report compiled by German architect Axel Will in the early 2000s, a copy of which we received from the Dachau Museum, described in detail that the layout actually looks like this. Will wrote:
Concurrently with the publication of the Katyn report in Pravda, an English translation was published in the USA and later presented at the Nuremberg trial[4] as definitive “evidence” for the German responsibility (“Document USSR-54”). However, the defendant Göring and his defense counsel were able to counter this accusation with such powerful arguments that the court tacitly dropped it. The spectacular case of Katyn clearly demonstrated that the Soviets did not shrink from putting the blame for their own crimes on the Germans. In this particular case the Soviet tactic could easily be explained by the predicament Moscow was facing: As the Soviets could not possibly admit their guilt, they by necessity had to blame their German adversary. But Katyn did not remain an isolated case. Wherever it seemed opportune, mass graves containing the bodies of victims of pre-war purges were ascribed to the Germans. For this tactic, Marina Sorokina has coined the apt term “Katyn model”. The organization in charge of this brazen falsification was the ESC.
Jewish influence in Germany has resulted in a defendant being assumed to be guilty merely for being in a German concentration camp during the war. For example, after being acquitted by the Israeli Supreme Court, John Demjanjuk was charged again on the grounds that he had been a guard named Ivan Demjanjuk at the Sobibor camp in Poland. On May 11, 2009, Demjanjuk was deported from Cleveland to be tried in Germany. Demjanjuk was convicted by a German criminal court as an accessory to the murder of 27,900 people at Sobibor and sentenced to five years in prison. No evidence was presented at Demjanjuk’s trial linking him to specific crimes. Demjanjuk died in Germany before his appeal could be heard by a German appellate court.[35]
In his 2008 collection of essays on the Nazi Final Solution and the Holocaust, a British authority on Germany’s Third Reich, Professor Ian Kershaw, was just one step away from admitting that credible evidence supporting the “Nazi gas chamber” story is non-existent. "Recorded comments about the murder of Jews refer almost invariably to mass shootings by the Einsatzgruppen [anti-guerilla warfare units of the German army],” the academic historian pointed out, “which in many cases were directly witnessed by members of the Wehrmacht [German army]. The gassing, both in mobile gas-units and then in extermination camps, was carried out much more secretly, and found little echo inside Germany to go by the almost complete absence of documentary sources relating to it."[8]
For example, Roeder requested that the Israeli ambassador be called to the witness stand, along with former German chancellors Helmut Kohl, Gerhard Schroeder, and other prominent individuals. In like manner, accused attorney Ludwig Block compiled a similar list of prominent witnesses in order to “consider the fact that massive political interests are hindering the breakthrough of the Holocaust’s historical truth.”[42]
Of the individual mass shootings of Jews perpetrated by German special units together with local auxiliary forces in the occupied parts of the Soviet Union and the Baltic countries in 1941–1944, the one at Babi Yar near Kiev on 29–30 September 1941 is undoubtedly the best known. This massacre reportedly claimed the lives of 33,771 Jews, although the evidentiary basis for this figure has been disputed.[1] In the shadow of Babi Yar, Holocaust historians list a number of five-figure mass shootings or repeated shootings at special “extermination sites”, such as Paneriai (Ponary) near Vilnius, Fort IX in Kaunas, Maly Trostenets near Minsk (sometimes referred to as an “extermination camp”),[2] the Drobitski Yar ravine near Kharkov, Bronnaya Gora near Baranovichi, and the Rumbula site on the outskirts of Riga, where during two mass shootings, one on 30 November 1941 and another on 8 December 1941, the vast majority of the Jews in the Riga ghetto, a total of some 25,000 people, were reportedly massacred by police units under the command of the Higher Leader of the SS and Police (HSSPF) in Reichskommissariat Ostland, Friedrich Jeckeln. Jeckeln is accused of having previously carried out the mass shooting at Babi Yar, and on 27–28 August 1941 before that the Kamenets-Podolsky massacre which, with 23,600 reported victims, is claimed to be the first of the several purported five-figure massacres of Jews during the German occupation of Soviet territory.
The following article consists of three extracts from The “Extermination Camps” of “Aktion Reinhardt”: An Analysis and Refutation of the Factitious “Evidence”, Forgeries and Faulty Argumentation of the “Holocaust Controversies” Bloggers, a comprehensive rebuttal to Jonathan Harrison, Roberto Muehlenkamp, Jason Myers, Sergey Romanov and Nicholas Terry's Belzec, Sobibor, Treblinka. Holocaust Denial and Operation Reinhard, a book-length critique which appeared online in 2011 and which aims at refuting the revisionist writings of Carlo Mattogno, Jürgen Graf and Thomas Kues on the subject of the “extermination camps” of “Aktion Reinhardt”, Bełżec, Sobibór and Treblinka. The extracts, which have been slightly edited in order to facilitate their reading as such, are taken from Chapter 7, “The Reality of Resettlement” and deal with the evidence for and possibility of German mass deportations of European Jews into the occupied territories of the Soviet Union 1941–1944.
By order of the ESC, a special commission led by a representative of Soviet military justice, Lt. Colonel A. Sharitch, carried out extensive investigations in the former concentration camp Sachsenhausen (May/June 1945). The commission was subdivided into several working groups, the activities of the so-called ”Technical Commission“ which inspected the camp crematorium (now called ”Station Z”) being of particular interest. The reports of these working groups, as well as Sharitch’s final report, are now kept at the State Archives of the Russian Federation (GARF).
For J. Sackar, therefore, "Bunker 2" was not a peasant cottage transformed into a gassing installation, but rather a "big pit" in which the bodies murdered in the chambers of Crematorium V were cremated!
Germany also conducted high-altitude experiments at Dachau. Dr. Sigmund Rascher performed these experiments beginning February 22, 1942 and ending around the beginning of July 1942.[7] The experiments were performed in order to know what happened to air crews after failure of, or ejection from, their pressurized cabins at very high altitudes. In this instance, airmen would be subjected within a few seconds to a drop in pressure and lack of oxygen. The experiments were performed to investigate various possible life-saving methods. To this end a low-pressure chamber was set up at Dachau to observe the reactions of a human being thrown out at extreme altitudes, and to investigate ways of rescuing him.[8] The victims were locked in the chamber, and the pressure in the chamber was then lowered to a level corresponding to very high altitudes. The pressure could be very quickly altered, allowing Dr. Rascher to simulate the conditions which would be experienced by a pilot freefalling from altitude without oxygen.
The official Holocaust historiography, however, claims that the Einsatzgruppen had the additional task of committing genocide against Soviet Jews. The Einsatzgruppen reports, which fall into the period from June 1941 to May 1942, are the primary proof of this alleged genocide. The Einsatzgruppen reports that have been produced are copies which show clear signs of postwar additions, inaccurate and inflated figures, and obscure signatures appearing on non-incriminating pages. Such reports would not constitute valid proof for legitimate historiography or a legitimate court of law.[26]
Crematorium III: fresh-air intake: 95 sheet-metal screens
As it turns out, gas chambers, crematories and flaming pits were not enough for Cohen, so he discovered gas vans at Birkenau, of which the orthodox narrative knows nothing:
It is stated twice in the document that 700 to 800 people, say 750, were driven into the gas chambers that had a floor area of 25 square meters = 2500 square decimeters that had a volume of 45 cubic meters, therefore a height of 1.8 meters or 18 decimeters.
Benjamin Ferencz, a Jewish American war-crimes investigator, was born in Transylvania and grew up in New York City before earning his law degree from Harvard. He secured an appointment to investigate the concentration camps at Buchenwald, Mauthausen and Dachau after the war.[2]
As is common knowledge and has been pointed out many times, crematorium chimneys do not emit flames. It is also impossible to push eight corpses into a cremation muffle whose door is just two feet wide and two feet high. And apart from that, before Tauber and his co-workers would have been able to push eight corpses into each muffle and get a huge blaze going, any plane of whose approach they claim to have heard would have long since flown away. Such testimonies are, to use Pressac’s words, “nothing but downright lies and pure invention.”[4]
DuBois claimed that the American prosecution was at a major disadvantage in the case. He quoted prosecuting attorney Jan Charmatz: “The Farben directors have 80 lawyers and hundreds of Farben employees working for them. We have 12 lawyers and less than 12 interrogators and investigators.” DuBois said that the prosecution attorneys and staff were overwhelmed.[20] DuBois failed to mention the limitations imposed on the defense team. For example, if the defense team had been allowed to conduct a forensic investigation of Auschwitz-Birkenau, it could have proved that there were no homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau.
Unfortunately Grünberg does not state the nationality of the arrivals, although it is presumable that the Theresienstadt Jews were (for the most part) Czech. His statement that most of the Jews in the camp at the time of his arrival were Polish implies one or more undocumented Jewish transports from Poland. That transports of Polish Jews reached Trostinec is also maintained by Belarussian Holocaust historian Marat Botvinnik.[30] From where Kohl and Adler derive their assertions that also Jews from Luxembourg, Holland, France were sent to Trostinec is unclear. In Kohl's case it is possibly unpublished court material, in Adler's it is more likely other testimonial sources. Grünberg in his testimony mentions two Trostinec survivors who had returned to Austria: Julie Sebek and Siegmund Prinz.[31]
In this respect, Snyder seems to have a blind eye to the fact that criminalizing historical interpretations of any kind violates precisely the ethical commitment to the individual that can only be the font and origin of human rights. And he also ignores the fact that in several European countries – Poland, Germany, France, and others – alternative interpretations of precisely some of the subjects of his talk are criminalized, enforced in a draconian fashion, and often lead to debilitating fines and lengthy prison terms. Unless Professor Snyder can bring himself to recognize that such dignity that he prizes should be extended even to Holocaust revisionists, his concluding encomium to human rights must be seen as flaccid and incomplete.
Finally, another of Blatt’s claims is inconsistent with the official lay out of Sobibor. We let Blatt pick up his story here: “Our job in this section done, SS Oberscharführer Karl Frenzel randomly chose four prisoners, myself included, and led us to the hair-cutting barrack, less than twenty feet from the gas chambers.”[97] Notice what Blatt is saying: the barracks where the hair of the female victims was cut (before they went to the gas chambers) was less than twenty feet (6.1 meters) from the gas chambers. Elsewhere he again states that the special barrack where the women’s hair was cut before entering the gas chambers was “just steps away from the gas chambers.”[98]
[16] Segev, Tom, The Seventh Million: The Israelis and the Holocaust, New York: Hill and Wang, 1993, pp. 161-162.
This sheet-metal shaft is not insulated. This raises questions. Design logic suggests that this shaft would be the suitable location to add substances [such as Zyklon B] to the heated air prior to entering the gas chamber. The examination of the sheet-metal shaft has so far not revealed any opening for such a manipulation. Yet the missing insulation points to such a possibility.”
[10] Rudolf, Germar, The Chemistry of Auschwitz: The Technology and Toxicology of Zyklon B and the Gas Chambers—A Crime-Scene Investigation, Uckfield, Great Britain: Castle Hill Publishers, 2017, pp. 342-345
Lord Janner, chairman of the Holocaust Education Trust, threatened to refer Rudolf’s case to the Home Secretary.
Holocaust historian Robert Jan van Pelt also conceded the evidence for the mass killings of Jews at Treblinka, Sobibor and Belzec—where allegedly millions were murdered—is very meager. In reference to these three camps, he wrote: "There are few eyewitnesses, no confession that can compare to that given by [Auschwitz commandant Rudolf] Höss, no significant remains, and few archival sources."[8] The statements by Sobibor researcher and former inmate of the camp, Thomas Toivi Blatt, harmonize with Professor van Pelt, for he admitted: “Sobibor was the most secretive of the extermination camps, and very little official documentation survives. Most of what was written in the camp or by [German officials in the Lublin district of Poland] was destroyed.”[9 ]
Christian pastor Howard Storm says that during his near-death experience he asked Jesus and the angels how God could let the Holocaust happen. Storm writes:[11]
Here we have perhaps the greatest deception of all. In order to show the world the horrible outcome of a potent anti-Semitism, a tale of monumental human disaster had to be constructed, promoted, and sustained. The undeniable and tragic death of several hundred thousand Jews—which included many deaths by old age, disease, injury, suicide, and in combat situations—would have to become “6 million.” Tough talk against Jews, aimed at driving them out of Germany, would have to become “euphemisms for mass murder.” Rooms designed to disinfest clothing and bedding against disease-carrying lice would have to become “homicidal gas chambers.” Hundreds of thousands of Jewish bodies would have to be burned down to ash, and then made to completely vanish. Transit camps constructed to move Jews out of the Reich—Treblinka, Belzec, Sobibor—would have to become “extermination camps” designed for mass-murder; and with diesel-engine exhaust, no less. And a forced-labor camp in which thousands of Jews died from typhus—Auschwitz—would have to become “the greatest death camp of all time.”
If Roosevelt and Churchill had really wished to deliver the world from the menace of totalitarianism, they had their God-given opportunity on June 22, 1941. England could have withdrawn from the war and made peace with Hitler on the most favorable terms. Hitler had no designs whatever on the United States, so we would not have been endangered by this turn of events. Then Hitler and Stalin would have fought each other into exhaustion. This is exactly what the Baldwin-Chamberlain foreign policy had originally envisaged. Mr. Truman, then a senator, strongly supported this policy, as did Senator Vandenberg and many others. It would have left the United States and England dominant powers in the world, and they might have kept it a predominately free world.[24]
[17] De Wan, George, “The Holocaust in Perspective,” Newsday: Long Island, NY, Feb. 23, 1983, Part II, p. 3.
The Holocaust is the greatest murder-mystery of the 20th century. Six million Jews, we are told, perished at the hands of the Nazis—in gas chambers, ghettos, and concentration camps. They were starved, suffocated, and shot. Their bodies were buried in mass graves, or burned in the ovens of Auschwitz, or on open flames. And all simply because they were Jews. It was the embodiment of evil, the greatest crime ever perpetrated.
What is the evidence for this assumption? As Breitman himself had already stated, “Himmler wanted to know how many inmates were released, and how many died, in each.”[20] But if Himmler ordered the camps to report the number of deaths, why should the commandant of Auschwitz withhold this same number? Breitman's assumption appears to be a purely ad hoc hypothesis intended simply to enable the writer to continue clinging to the official number of victims at Auschwitz.
Yehuda Bauer, ein israelischer Holocaust-Forscher […], sagte, er habe seinen Freund Wiesenthal gewarnt […] bezüglich der Verbreitung der falschen Behauptung, der Holocaust habe 11 Millionen Opfer gefordert – 6 Millionen Juden und 5 Millionen Nichtjuden.
The presence of Polish Jews in the Riga Kaiserwald camp and its subcamps is confirmed by one of the leading Latvian Holocaust historians, Margers Vestermanis, who writes:
The first case was similar to the one in Birkenau; the effective surface area of Morgue #1, without the area occupied by the 7 concrete pillars, was – as we will show below – of 208.88 m2; and applying the same coefficient as in Sachsenhausen, it was planned for approximately 120 corpses. It can be assumed that it was planned to place them on the floor; 60 on each side, leaving the necessary space in the center for a transport trolley. Each exhaust opening would have expelled the fetor of 3 corpses. Since the corpses had to be aligned on the floor, the exhaust openings were designed to be at floor level.
Herein lies the ultimate lesson of Pope John Paul II’s promotion of the “four-million-murdered-at-Auschwitz” falsehood. A Christian does not find the truth about the alleged Holocaust by blindly accepting what the mass media and various political elites tell him to believe. For if he did, he could end up like Pope John Paul II who accepted and promoted the propaganda falsehood that four million people were murdered at Auschwitz.
European scholars who have questioned the Holocaust story have suffered tremendous hardships. For example, French revisionist Dr. Robert Faurisson lost his professorship in 1991, was viciously beaten by thugs who were never caught or prosecuted, and was the defendant in numerous law suits. Faurisson believed that revisionist historians are up against a religion. Faurisson said:[34]
The recovery of the human fat as described by former Auschwitz inmates also presents insuperable practical problems. How was it possible to collect the hypothetical liquid fat by means of a bucket attached to a long pole, standing on the edge of a cremation pit with a total radiant heat of 2,148,200 MJ and a minimum temperature of 600°C?[45]
In the text of his decision Judge Gray admitted he was predisposed to believe in homicidal gas chambers (both sides in the Holocaust controversy agree that there were gas chambers to control disease). “I have to confess that, in common I suspect with most other people," wrote Gray, "I had supposed that the evidence of mass extermination of Jews in the gas chambers at Auschwitz was compelling.” The judge would have rendered a great public service had he inquired into exactly why a majority of people had come to believe in something whose material basis Gray himself admitted was largely absent. In any case, his predisposition to believe combined with the vast manpower advantage enjoyed by Lipstadt and Penguin Books, made the trial's outcome easy to predict.
The title of Hoffman’s book, then, is somewhat misleading. Although The Great Holocaust Trial does give an account of Zündel’s false news trials of ’85 and ’88, this is a book about Ernst Zündel and his decades-long struggle to defang the Holocaust golem. Hoffman begins by recounting Zündel’s birth and early life in the Black Forest—a region, as Hoffman is quick to point out, that has a long tradition of producing “indomitable warriors” that have repeatedly resisted the clutches of imperialism. Yet the Germans, who more than 2,000 years ago were able to beat back the world’s most formidable empire, seem to have little luck with the psychological brand of warfare that is waged so beautifully by the empires of today. Contemporary Germans, Hoffman suggests, worship their defeat and their bottomless guilt because they are a colonized people living in an occupied land. Thus as Hoffman points out, it is especially stupid for people to dismiss revisionism on the grounds that “the Germans” themselves vigorously protect the orthodox Holocaust narrative. Those who recite this cliché must pretend “as if the current crew of opportunists, whores, and nincompoops ruling Germany from the barrel of U.S. Occupation troops’ guns are somehow the legitimate spokesmen of the German people. They forget that the Communists and Zionists won the war and have imposed their political, military, academic, and journalistic worldview on the colonized Germans ever since” (29).
In a recent fund-raising letter, the Anti-Defamation League, who claim to fight "to secure justice and fair treatment for all" addressed the recent Holocaust conference in Tehran. They wrote to their potential financial backers not only about the threat of Holocaust "denial," but of the need to monitor and track revisionists around the world:
You might think that Cole’s harshest score-settling would come in for Rosie and the Lolita-chasing neocon-cum-Disney-scripting hack with whom she tag-teamed to out David Stein as a Holocaust denier … in which case you would have another think coming. Because the dirtiest dirt in Republican Party Animal is reserved not for the people who exposed Stein as Cole (nor for Irv Rubin, the man who tried to have Cole murdered), but for an accused rapist (as Cole never tires of emphasizing, for reasons more subtle than they first appear) who has for some time served as “the media’s go-to guy for the selective skepticism of hipsters who hang out in coffee shops in Silverlake.”
Other evidence of mass graves of German POWs at American-run camps has been found at Lambach in Austria in early 1996.  Horst Littmann, an expert recommended by the Austrian Ministry of the Interior, concluded that the bodies were from American POW camps at Hofau, Grüberfeld, and Kuhweide.[18] However, this evidence of mass death of German POWs was not reported to the public by any media.
It is therefore obvious that the first executions could not have taken place prior to 17 November. Precisely on the basis of these considerations, already discussed by myself at the beginning of the 1990s[79], Pressac shifted the date of the “first gassing” at Auschwitz from September (the dating of the Kalendarium of Auschwitz) to December 1941[80]. For his part, Schulte, not knowing which date to choose, cites both. Nevertheless, the “first gassing” has no historical basis[81], nor do the “gas chambers” in Crematorium I[82].
Allied prosecutors often used torture to help convict the defendants at Nuremberg and other postwar trials. A leading example of the use of torture to obtain evidence is the confession of Rudolf Höss, the former commandant at Auschwitz. Höss’s testimony at the Nuremberg trial was the most important evidence presented of a German extermination program. Höss said that more than 2.5 million people were exterminated in the Auschwitz gas chambers, and that another 500,000 inmates had died there of other causes.[13] No defender of the Holocaust story today accepts these inflated figures, and other key portions of Höss’s testimony at Nuremberg are widely acknowledged to be untrue.
What Crowell does address, thoroughly and with breathtaking credibility, is a related subject quite as fascinating as the history of the Holocaust legend, and that is the history of its origins. This is decidedly not, as is usual, whatever history might lie behind the presentation, modification, or promotion of the events in its content, but rather, the history of those who first received, or obtained, or conveyed, or exploited the material seeping out from various self-appointed "witnesses," "advocates," or "interpreters," ranging all the way from former "inmates" to cryptanalysts working at the legendary decoding laboratories at Bletchley Park in England.
Thus both empirical evidence and learned opinion suggest that Jews have, for centuries, had a hand in war, social strife, and economic distress, and have managed to profit thereby.[8] Being a small and formally disempowered minority everywhere, it is striking that they should merit even a mention in such events—or if they did, it should have been as the exploited, and not the exploiters. And yet they seem to have demonstrated a consistent ability to turn social unrest to their advantage. Thus it is not an unreasonable claim that they might even instigate such unrest, anticipating that they could achieve desired ends.
Not far from Steven Spielberg’s video trove of black comedy in Los Angeles is the Museum of Tolerance, founded by Simon Wiesenthal. Several years back a well-versed revisionist, David Cole, heard that amongst the museum’s displays was a film purportedly showing Jewish kids being herded into a gassing van by grim-faced, rifle-toting Nazis. Cole contends that no such homicidal vans existed (and, in fact, none has ever been found), so he was curious where Wiesenthal had found the contradicting footage. Through some diligent research, he found the obscure, fictional movie made in Poland from which the scene was purloined. Further research led to the Polish producer, who was incensed to learn the museum was showing his work without paying him a cent in royalties.20 I suspect the museum is no longer showing that bit of “documentary” evidence.
[25] Greif, Gideon, We Wept without Tears: Testimonies of the Jewish Sonderkommando from Auschwitz, New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 2005, p. 147.
Soon thereafter, World War I began. We then begin to read of the plight of “more than 6,000,000 Jews who live within the war zone” (2 Dec 1914). The next month carried more reports of the eternally damned, “of whom more than 6,000,000 are in the very heart of the war zone”; they are consequently “subjected to every manner of suffering and sorrow,” and all Americans are called upon to help (Jan 14; p. 3). In 1916, we read that “the world is silent” despite the fact that “nearly six million Jews are ruined, in the greatest moral and material misery” (Feb 28; p. 8). A year later, Rabbi Samuel Schulman exclaims that “six millions of Jews are living in lands where they are oppressed, exploited, crushed, and robbed of every inalienable human right” (Jan 22; p. 6). In May of 1917, we hear that “six million Jews—half the Jews of the world—are calling to you for help” (May 21; p. 1). By September, the situation was being described in the strongest possible terms; women and infant Jews must be saved, we are told, “if the Jewish race is to survive the terrible holocaust of the world war” (Sep 24; p. 20). Few seem to realize that a Jewish “holocaust” is said to have occurred in both world wars.
Photo #3 (June 26): The most damning: This Allied photo, taken at the very height of the Hungarian Operation, shows no Krema smoke, no pit smoke—in fact, no smoke whatsoever. It shows no arriving hordes of Jews, no parading of victims to the gas chambers, no sign at all of any mass killing…nothing but a calm and quiet prison camp on a clear summer’s day.
David Irving was viciously smeared by the media after his testimony at the 1988 Ernst Zündel false-news trial in Canada. Irving’s books disappeared from many bookshops, he sustained huge financial losses, and he was ultimately labeled as a “Holocaust denier”.[1]
Some attempts at finding physical evidence to back up the Holocaust story have proven equally farcical. For instance, there’s the case of the Operation Reinhardt camps – Treblinka, Sobibor, and Belzec. Supposedly, hundreds of thousands of Jews were gassed and buried in mass graves, later disinterred and cremated in these camps (of which nothing remained but empty fields at war’s end). Revisionists say “no way.” They contend these “death” camps were actually transit camps, in which Jews being deported to areas occupied by the Germans in eastern Europe were processed. Who’s right could be proven quite simply by taking core samples to determine if the subsoil has been disturbed, i.e., pits were dug for burying the bodies. If pits, then death camps; no pits, then transit camps. But the Jewish authorities won’t allow this simple test to resolve one of history’s great mysteries to be performed.21 They did, however, allow an archeologist to do some digging at Treblinka. She dug a pit about four feet by six feet using the best archeological methods, expecting to find bones, teeth, ashes, and the like. She got down a couple of feet without finding anything; then “Eureka!”, she struck pay dirt: a tooth!... a SHARK’S tooth.22 So much for the archeological evidence!
The Quarantäne-Liste therefore confirms that the above-mentioned 1,298 Jews did not enter the BIIa quarantine camp: therefore, if it is certain that they were registered at Birkenau, but do not appear under the heading “Zugang”, nor under “Zugangsquarantäne”, where did they go?
And so it goes with Drabek, Entress, Feigl, with Trauner, Niedermeyer, Haeger, Miessner, Riegler, Zoller, with Blei, with Eckert, with Striegel, with Eigruber, with Eisenhoefer, with Mack and Riegler. Let the court also note the unbelievable accusations that the affiants make against themselves. It is contrary to normal human conduct. People just don’t talk that way about themselves. Beyond any doubt, threats and duress were used to induce the signing of the untruthful statements in evidence.[24]
On August 27, and September 1, 6, and 11, 1941, Churchill was shown German police decrypts reporting on the execution of thousands of Jews on Soviet territory.[39] This information is consistent with the Holocaust revisionist position. As far back as the mid-1970s, Revisionist scholar Arthur Butz made the point that this is the one part of the Holocaust legend that contains a kernel of truth. During the war between Germany and the Soviet Union, thousands of Jews and non-Jews were shot by German police units and auxiliaries of local police in their attempt to stop the guerilla warfare being waged against them.[40] Brutality was practiced by both the Soviets and the Germans.
The AEG memo, on the other hand, is discussed by Dwork and van Pelt in their book on the history of Auschwitz (1270, p. 330) but here the authors do not speak of the use of the word “Vergasungskeller,” although Anatomy had by then been in print for two years and van Pelt had co-authored the chapter on this very topic. Dwork and van Pelt do, however, quote a line from the AEG memo as saying “the capacity of the temporary system [of the electricals] would not allow for simultaneous ‘special treatment’ and incineration.” As opposed to that, the AEG memo reproduced by van Pelt in The Case clearly states, “an incineration with simultaneous special treatment will be made possible.” All this does not speak well of the care applied by van Pelt to the analysis and the interpretation of the evidence presented on such a major issue. If the critical analysis of an important and easily viewable document is so superficial, one wonders how other sources that are only cited have been handled.
On 27 January 2017, International Holocaust Remembrance Day, the website of the White House carried a statement in the name of President Donald Trump lamenting the “depravity and horror inflicted on innocent people by Nazi terror” and expressing gratitude to “those who risked their lives to save the innocent.”
After several years of research consisting in visits, readings, meetings with experts – for example, those of the central laboratory of the Paris police, rue de Dantzig in the 15th Arrondissement or, in the United States – right from the beginning of my investigation into the execution gas chambers of certain penitentiaries – I had accumulated a considerable amount of information 1) on German gas chambers for disinfestation using Zyklon B, a product whose main component was hydrocyanic acid, 2) on American gas chambers for the execution of a single prisoner, also by means of hydrocyanic acid. However, at the same period, I was obliged to admit that I still did not know how, technically, those supposed Nazi gas chambers, used day and night to exterminate, at Auschwitz for instance, hundreds or thousands of people at a time, could have been made and could have worked. I did not succeed in finding anyone, in France or abroad, to explain to me how the gassers and their helpers could have handled the corpses without mortally contaminating themselves (hydrocyanic acid penetrates the skin and stays there, whereas with airing out, forced ventilation and still other means, it can be removed from clothes, shorn hair, metallic objects or other things). According to a text that was presented as a confession of Rudolf Höss, one of the three successive commandants of Auschwitz, I remained puzzled and no one could explain the mysteries to me. For example, how had the members of a Sonderkommando or “special squad,” once the victims’ screaming stopped and a ventilation device was turned on, been able to enter “sofort” (immediately) what would have been a sea of hydrogen cyanide, and that while eating and smoking, in other words, without even wearing a gas mask? Zyklon B consisted of hydrocyanic acid on an inert porous base. Invented in 1922 and patented in late 1926, it had the disadvantage of being explosive, ignitable by the slightest spark, even from static electricity. To use it as we are told it was used for the Auschwitz-I “gas chamber”, in proximity to a crematory oven heating up, would have been sheer madness. It was I who, ultimately, discovered the building plans of the crematorium at Auschwitz-I and those of Crematoria II,III, IV and V at Birkenau. They had been kept hidden since the end of the war. I found them on March 19, 1976 in the archives of the Auschwitz State Museum.2 Thus I can state, in knowledge of the facts, that it would have been impossible to make 2,000 persons – as asserted by R. Höss in the account he gave at Nuremberg on April 15, 1946 – enter a space of 210 square meters (where, incidentally, assuming it were possible after all, there would hardly have been any need of gas to kill them, for they would simply have died of asphyxiation due to a rapid depletion of oxygen). Never could the men of the Sonderkommando have set about, with all their might, the cyclopean task of disentangling, in an atmosphere full of hydrocyanic acid, so many bodies from one another and dragging each to a small lift connecting to the upper floor and the oven room. I learned that, for a team of exterminators carrying out the simple disinfestation of a house with Zyklon B, any physical effort was strictly prohibited, since it would have accelerated the men’s breathing and so prevented the gas mask filters from serving their purpose. The rules specified that at the end of a building’s disinfestation, when it was time to open the windows to air out the premises, one must not persist in trying to open a window that offered resistance but instead go and open the others. (To those who claim, without any evidence, that the Germans destroyed all their gas chambers, I retort: “In that case, draw me the things which, according to you, the Germans destroyed.”)
As indicated above, the “Holocaust by Bullets” took place before the Wannsee Conference, from which the order for the liquidation of the Jews allegedly emanated. From where did the orders for such a massive operation come? Were they issued on the independent initiatives of local commanders? The following text from p. 67 hints at an order from a centralized authority:
Self-help guru Tony Robbins in his book Awaken the Giant Within emphasizes the importance of asking the right questions to receive answers. He uses the following example from Jewish “Holocaust” survivor Stanislavsky Lech to illustrate his point:[1]
One striking fact is this: Most people have no idea that there is a Holocaust mystery at all. This in itself testifies to the power and influence of orthodoxy. They work hard to ensure that most of the public never hears from the other side—nor that there even is another side. When the topic does slip out, as it does from time to time, it is always cast in the most denigrating and insulting of terms. Revisionists are invariably called “Holocaust deniers,” “neo-Nazis,” or “anti-Semites.” They are slandered and impugned from the start. But their arguments are never discussed, never challenged, and never refuted. This, of course, is the classic ad hominem fallacy: to attack your opponent’s character or motives, rather than addressing the substance of his arguments. This is a standard tactic of those who have weak counterarguments, or who wish to avoid discussing the topic at all.
Over a number of years, I have had direct experience of Holocaust denial in a variety of forms. At the turn of the century, I was involved as an expert witness in the libel action brought by the writer David Irving against Deborah Lipstadt and her publisher, Penguin Books, over her allegation that he was a Holocaust denier who manipulated and distorted the evidence for the Nazi extermination of European Jews. Researching the subject for the trial, which ended in Irving’s comprehensive defeat, brought me into contact with many varieties of Holocaust denial, many of them nauseating, all of them upsetting.”[5]
Lotte Strauss recounts a conversation with Schneider in 1999 during which the Holocaust survivor-cum-historian told her that
In (implicitly) responding to this line of argument, Günter Morsch has, while offhandedly conceding a similarity to the DEGESCH Kreislauf system, emphasized the novelty of the Sachsenhausen gassing system[2] and even claimed that it represented a “new, more perfect killing technique.”[3] The claim of novelty for the Sachsenhausen system rests on the one significant difference between regular DEGESCH Kreislauf gas chambers and the installation described in the Soviet technical report, namely that the Soviet report describes a system that used a bottled gas rather than Zyklon B. The aim of this paper is to explain the origin of the Soviet technical report in a way that accounts for this discrepancy. We will see that there is in fact a well-documented explanation for this feature of the Soviet technical report, which places the Soviet-depicted Sachsenhausen gassing installation firmly within the history of sanitary gassings, and which excludes the homicidal interpretation.
At some point, it must have dawned on the defense that the trial itself could be used to shut down David Irving. Not only would the tag “Holocaust denier” be a shameful scarlet letter, but also the legal requirement that should he lose that he be responsible to pay the entire cost for the defense would potentially bankrupt him. Court and defense costs would amount to approximately $13 million.
Further complicating matters is the fact that human rights organizations ostensibly committed to monitoring governmental violations of basic human rights, such as Amnesty International, routinely ignore and distance themselves from the plight of convicted ‘Holocaust deniers’ who continue to languish in Cimmerian gaols throughout the continent of Europe. Publicly branded as ‘Holocaust deniers,’ dissident historians are thus relegated to the status of outcasts, “neo-Nazis,” outlaws and pariahs, exposed to public contempt by an unsympathetic media and “politically correct” politicians.
In early July, things are said to have changed drastically, though. Czech writes that on June 30, the second gas-chamber building – Bunker 2 – became operational. She supports her claim by again quoting Rudolf Höss’s post-war statements, which are of little value, however, due to the circumstances of coercion under which they were made and due to their internal inconsistencies and blatant contradictions to external, more-reliable sources.[10] Since Czech’s claims about Bunker 1 are obviously bogus, how can we take such lore seriously anymore? The fact of the matter is that, after July 1942, not all deportees sent toward Auschwitz were being taken into the camp anymore. So what happened in July 1942 that changed things?
It appears that the “smoking gun” would have been conclusive evidence, a comment, or at least an acknowledgement of an order for the extermination of the Jews by Hitler or any member of the National Socialist leadership.[8] Unlike the general public, historians and officials at the USHMM understand that not only is such an order missing, the private papers, diaries, and other documents left by those present nowhere confirm a coordinated program for mass extermination.[9]
In previous articles of this series I discussed the information provided by German Holocaust historian Christian Gerlach on testimonial evidence confirming the presence of French and Dutch Jews in Minsk. Here I will scrutinize what Gerlach has to say about the deportation of Polish Jews to Belarus. I give here first this passage from Gerlach's book in extenso with enumerated and bracketed notes inserted following each statement I have chosen to comment on.
Lest the reader doubt that such loose accountings are actually credited, consider the extremely liberal definition of a ‘Holocaust victim’ given by “the leading authority in Jewish global demography,” Sergio DellaPergola. In a 2003 report, he stated that a victim is anyone “who at least for a brief period of time was submitted in their locations to a regime of duress and/or limitation of their full civil rights.”[6] This is an absurdly broad definition, one obviously designed to maximize the number of victims and survivors. Clearly then, anyone who died, for any reason, suffered even potential duress—thus may count as a ‘Holocaust victim.’ Their family members also certainly suffered duress, and if they were alive after the end of the war could be counted as ‘Holocaust survivors.’ In fact, virtually anyone, any European Jew, who lived through the end of the war could be declared a ‘Holocaust survivor’—and thus entitled to receive lifetime compensation from Germany, endless speaking engagements, and perhaps a book or movie dramatization of their lives.
[4] Weber, Mark, “Extermination Camps Propaganda Myths,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 299.
Holocaust historians of course know nothing of deportation of Dutch and Belgian Jews to Latvia or any other location in the occupied eastern territories. What is most important to us here, however, is the date on which the “first step in the policy of extermination”, consisting of the establishment of an “inner ghetto” in Riga, took place according to the British newspaper: 28 November 1941. This is indeed the date on which the liquidation of the western section of the Riga ghetto began,[13] followed just a few days later by the reported first mass shooting at Rumbula. Following this event, the remaining Latvian Jews were housed in the northern section of the ghetto, between the streets of Kalna and Ludzas, whereas the southern section, between the streets Ludzas and Maskavas, came to be inhabited by Jewish deportees from the Reich and the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia.[14]
Previously we had but a brief look at his testimony from a book that contained excerpts from his memoir Chronicle 1941-1945 (Etz Ahaim, 1991), which, it should be noted, was never distributed commercially.[1] But a few weeks ago an updated edition was published under a new title: Manuscripts 1944-1947 – From Thessaloniki to the Auschwitz Sonderkommando (Alexandria, 2018). So now we can have an overall look. Let’s begin.
Indeed, the gas chamber ceiling today is 2.15 meters high, but the adjacent room height is 2.9 meters—a full 75 cm (30 inch) differential.
Walter Laqueur interviewed Karski in 1979, and included a summary - but not a transcript - of the interview in his book The Terrible Secret.[82]Absent the actual transcript the source is not particularly useful, but broadly speaking Laqueur’s version has Karski confirming what he said in other interviews. In particular, he mentions that “Karski says he learned only in later years that Belzec was not a transit but a death camp and that most of the victims were killed in gas chambers.”[83] In a 1987 interview with Maciej Kozlowski, Karski confirmed this, stating that
Today, images of Nordhausen are widely used as proof of a Jewish Holocaust. Why is this particular image so popular? The bodies of those blown up or shot by the British, then pulled out of craters or the rubble of buildings and lined up in ordered rows by the Americans are meant to imply an orderly German method of mass murder. Apparently, they want us to believe the Germans lined all these prisoners up here in neat rows and shot them where they stood. If these dead people were German soldiers, the Brits would pat themselves on the back for a job well done. Instead, the Allies just blamed their bombing and shooting screw up on the Germans. What a horrific scam, pulled right in front of our very eyes. Imagery of tragic deaths which were the direct result of the Allies’ actions are cynically exploited to sell a lie.
Finally, there are the conveniently gullible, people of little curiosity and even less doubt. These frequently start out as the dupes of either of the two more-malignant classes of free riders, but then smoothly segue over to the predatory side of the equation. They are told that Great-Aunt Sylvie or Grandpa Morris was caught in one of the infamous Aktions and was gassed at <any of the 1500 concentration camps that existed.> Probably Great-Grandmother Emma, too, assuming she hadn’t already died by the time she would have been forced onto the train. Just as often, there are numbers in the place of names, such as “31 members of my family,” or “all but the three who made it here,” or anonymous groups such as that. Anyone inconsiderate enough to ask a name or relationship is certain to receive a pained stare instead of an answer.
14. Combating genocide denial via law: état des lieux of anti-denial legislation
1. It is a fact that the walls of the disinfestation chambers in Auschwitz, Birkenau, Stutthof, and Majdanek are saturated with cyanide compounds, and this not only superficially, but into the depth of the masonry, as I have demonstrated by taking samples from different depths of the wall. Compare in this regard my mortar and plaster Sample Pairs 9 & 11, 12 & 13, 19a & b. […], which were each taken at the same spot but at different depths, as well as Sample 17, taken from below the overlying lime plaster (which is thus similar to 19b).
This account totally contradicts the orthodox version. The gas chamber itself was supposed to be the fake shower room, but according to Cohen the fake shower room was in the undressing room – and with only one fake shower head!
It is not clear which of the two “gas chamber buildings” our witness is referring to here[21], but regardless, the event described is impossible, not to say absurd, given that between 450 and fifty and 500 victims were supposedly jammed inside each chamber, and that the doors to the chambers were “sealed all around”. Even without the air being pumped out, and with “only” a hundred, surely panicking, victims locked inside the hermetically sealed chamber, the oxygen would run out after a few hours[22], and one can only hold one’s breath for so long.
The claim that vacuum was used as the killing agent is found in many early Treblinka eyewitness reports.[23] Another variant, found occasionally also in later witness statements (long after vacuum as well as steam had been discarded as murder weapons by the Holocaust chroniclers), is that the air was first sucked out, and then replaced with engine exhaust gas.[24] It appears that Rajchman supports this second version. The very notion of this murder method is so patently spurious, that it is amazing that it has ever occurred to any person capable of rational thinking. Why bother introducing lethal exhaust gas into the chamber, when the victims would have died anyway, and within minutes, from the deprivation of oxygen?
In great numbers, I would say 1948, 1949. We knew about concentration camps. In 1945 after the war there were a lot of people running around and showing their numbers, their tattoo numbers. There were some pictures that were shown right at the end of the war, like when they liberated Dachau, Buchenwald. But that to us was almost understandable because the pictures they showed were of people that had obviously died from starvation. You could see their skeletons. We had not been through that kind of a starvation, but we knew how quickly you lose your weight. And there was also the word that most of these people had died from typhoid fever. And there were many other typhoid cases, for instance, in France and in Buchenwald. So, yes, that was not excusable. On the other hand, there were times at the end of the war when a lot of our people didn’t have anything to eat.
Support for the Government’s proposed reform continued to be vigorously expressed in public forums. James Allan noted that John Stuart Mill’s famous thesis On Liberty “relied on a certain distrust of government and government agents and bureaucracies, and even judges.” Allan asked: “What grounds are there, really, for thinking they know what is right and true and won’t abuse their position when silencing people?”[31] David Rolph, an associate professor of law at Sydney University, pointed out that Section 18D “permits a greater intrusion on free speech than defamation law currently does” and that the defense of fair comment “is complex and technical and often difficult for defendants to establish.” He felt that the Racial Discrimination Act and defamation law both needed reform.[32] One John Bell, in supporting the appointment of Wilson, noted that there had only been one “non-minority group recipient of a favorable tribunal decision in the history of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission” (himself), thus indicating the ethnic bias inherent in the act’s working.[33] Chris Merritt bewailed “the overwhelming silence of the publicly funded human rights industry when freedom of speech is at stake.”[34] An Eric Lockett addressed the legalistic “nanny state” mindset behind the act: “The law can never make people good – the best it can hope for is to protect the innocent from the wrong-doing of others… We kid ourselves if we think that the law can ever be a substitute for the moral education that was once delivered at our mothers’ knees, or in Sunday school.”[35] Major newspapers agreed that change was needed. In Melbourne The Age stated: “We believe Section 18C should be abolished… The danger in the present framework is that in trying to protect tolerance and freedom, the legislation diminishes both….. The best weapon against hurtful and even vile words is public ridicule, not suppression of expression.”[36] The Australian presciently noted: “There is, sadly, only a small and quiet constituency for press freedom and free speech in this country.” It asked: “But where are the champions, many of whom are leaders in the academy, media and social movements, when the most important human right of all, free speech, is under an all-out assault?”[37]
Jewish “Holocaust” historian Yehuda Bauer writes:[2]
In 2002, during David Irving's “Real History” Conference in Cincinnati, the late Dr. Robert Countess presented a physical representation of “Kula’s Kolumns,” as he called them.[1] Since the year 2000, these columns have been at the center of a controversy about how exactly the insecticide Zyklon B is supposed to have been introduced into the Morgues #1 of Crematoria II and III at Auschwitz, where, the orthodox Auschwitz narrative has it, up to 400,000 human beings are said to have been poisoned to death. These morgues are sometimes referred to as “the absolute center of human suffering,” so when preparing the upcoming new edition of my expert report, I considered it important to shed some more light onto these devices.
The most reliable documents on Auschwitz – the Sterbebücher von Auschwitz,[28] the Kommandanturbefehle von Auschwitz[29]  and the "radio messages from Auschwitz, deciphered by the Allies”[30]  – contain not the slightest reference to mass killings by means of toxic gas. This is in addition to the fact that the number of victims reported by the British Intelligence Service largely coincide with the numbers of victims reported in the Auschwitz "Death Books."
Erika Kounio was the editor of the book Oral Testimonies of the Jews from Thessaloniki about the Holocaust examined in an earlier article. As she was also a Holocaust survivor, we will now have a look at her own memoir, 50 Years Later: Memories of a Thessalonian Jewess.[1]
The case of Ebb Cade, a black 53-year-old construction worker at Oak Ridge, is illustrative. Cade was hospitalized after an auto accident in which he suffered some general trauma and a fractured leg; he was coherent when he was admitted to the hospital. His treatment there was delayed so that there would be time to observe the effects on him of the (covert) injection of some plutonium into his bloodstream. He was, like Jews at Auschwitz, very much a captive, if only under “medical” auspices. As a captive, he was subject to the detailed observation that such experiments require to yield usable results. After some months, during which his injuries, with or without medical assistance, healed, Cade “liberated” himself and returned, by one means or another, to his home in North Carolina. Experiments of this kind continued, though not necessarily at Oak Ridge, well into the Fifties. Most, if not all, of the subjects were black. None is known to have been Jewish. Whatever experiments were conducted at Auschwitz ceased permanently in early 1945, and those alleged to have been in any way complicit in them have been hounded literally to the ends of the earth throughout all the decades since.
Austria proved to be the next legal testing ground when in March, 1992, Water Lüftl, a highly qualified engineer in Austria, posed a challenge to the courts following an essay he had written entitled, “Holocaust: Belief and Facts,” which raised uncomfortable questions in respect to the gas chambers of Auschwitz.
Under these circumstances, source criticism of testimony is a very important hallmark of scholarly works, particularly when it comes to the Holocaust, about which survivors, bystanders and alleged perpetrators simply have got to remember what the public expects them to, often under threat of severe social or even legal consequences. Taking any testimony about the Holocaust at face value is therefore not only unscientific, it is also dangerous, because only a critical listener encourages a witness to stick to the facts, whereas a credulous listener often gets what he deserves, or as Dr. Susan Haack, professor of philosophy and law at the University of Miami, put it:[15]
[1] Bischof, Günter, “Bacque and Historical Evidence,” in Bischof, Günter and Ambrose, Stephen E., (eds.), Eisenhower and the German POWs: Facts against Falsehood, Baton Rouge and London: Louisiana State University Press, 1992, p. 201.
Other recent works seem to completely overlook Dachau, as if it played no role whatsoever in the Holocaust. Longerich’s authoritative Holocaust: The Nazi Persecution and Murder of the Jews (2010), for example, has only passing mention of the camp on three or four scattered pages (out of 645 total), and no reference to a gas chamber there at all.
In the wake of the Bishop Williamson affair, Jesuit Father Federico Lombardi, a papal spokesman, echoed these sentiments when he said that to deny the Holocaust is to deny “the most obvious manifestation” of the presence of evil in the world. He added: “A religious person, a Christian must face the challenge of faith represented by this fact, by the evil in the world.”[10 ]
Since Kula was not a member of the Sonderkommando, one wonders what the source of his “knowledge” about the gas chambers and their operation is anyway. It probably is mere hearsay or rumor “knowledge,” which indicates that Kula’s testimony has been “cross-pollinated” by other witnesses.
In 1983, the anti-Nazi book Legions of Death by Rupert Butler stated that Jewish Sgt. Bernard Clarke and other British officers tortured Rudolf Höss into making his confession. The torture of Höss was exceptionally brutal. Neither Bernard Clarke nor Rupert Butler finds anything wrong or immoral in the torture of Höss. Neither of them seems to understand the importance of their revelations. Bernard Clarke and Rupert Butler prove that Höss’s testimony at Nuremberg was obtained by torture, and is therefore not credible evidence in establishing a program of German genocide against European Jewry.[17]
Here is Novick the Holocaust revisionist on page 223 of the paperback version:
10. The ritual defamers are quite right about one thing; they were deeply disturbed and saddened to see a Hobart and William Smith Colleges title attached to it, even with a lengthy disclaimer. Diversity and perspectives outside the mainstream are to be encouraged, but not if they question Jewish power, Israel, or Holocaust doctrine. Apparently those topics are totally taboo.
The SS “expert” on bodyburning ordered us to put women, particularly fat women, on the first layer on the grill, face down. The second layer could consist of whatever was brought […]. Then the “expert” ordered us to lay dry branches under the grill and to light them. Within a few minutes the fire would take so it was difficult to approach the crematorium from as far as 50 meters away. (p. 175)
What Holocaust revisionists really look like.
Even when Prof. Evans wrote this ﬁfteen years ago, it was clear that Cavendish-Bentinck had been skeptical about the existence of homicidal gas chambers, rather than (as Prof. Evans suggests) merely doubting that they had been used to gas Poles in addition to Jews. As for the role of PWE, the Cavendish-Bentinck minute suggests that they had (at least at some stage) exaggerated (if not actually invented) gas-chamber stories. For conﬁrmation of this, we must turn to the PWE’s own ﬁles from earlier in the war.
“Then they went into the gas chamber, a place like a shower, until there were lots of them and then it was locked. They didn’t know anything about it. The gas was switched on and that was the end. There was a sort of peep-hole there. We were able to watch. I saw, I saw; but if that Kapo had caught us, he would have beaten us to death. They fell like flies. It took fifteen minutes and some, well many of them were still alive, they were still breathing. We opened it up to make the gas go away and then we dragged them out. Those who were still breathing, they beat to death. […] There were about two to three hundred in the chamber, it was not always the same. They were Jews: women, children and men too – whole families, yes, yes. They did not put Roma (gypsies) there. When Roma died, yeah, they would throw them into the furnace. After the gassing we dragged the corpses from there. They gave us kinds of belts, we had to tie them to a leg and pull it to that crematorium. Only Jews were selected (for work in the crematorium), they were very strong kids, see, young. They got more to eat; at the most they were there three or four months; then finished, sent to the gas chambers and others took their place. I had already learned my lesson. I had grown accustomed to it. It did not do anything to me.” (p. 218)
[16] Thorn, Victor, The Holocaust Hoax Exposed: Debunking the 20th Century’s Biggest Lie, Washington, D.C.: The Barnes Review, 2012, p. 2 of Foreword.
From the pertinent footnote, we learn that our information on the entire affair is based exclusively on post-war testimonies. In this context, the author mentions a single document, reproduced below. The document is a bill of lading to the Institute of Hygiene of the Waffen-SS (SS-Hygiene-Institut) of Rajsko, Hygiene and Bacteriology Section, relating to the “head of a cadaver” (Kopf einer Leiche) taken from a “12-year old child” (12-jähriges Kind). Nothing is known of the cause of death of the child; the only thing that is certain is that the request for histological examination originated from the H-Krankenbau Zigeunerlager Auschwitz II, BIIe, that is, the prisoner hospital of the gypsy camp. The explanation advanced by H. Kubica is clearly a pretext. Noma faciei (or cancrum oris) is a disease which destroys the orofacial tissues. It currently strikes chiefly sub-Saharan African children between the ages of 2 and 16; the mortality rate, in the absence of adequate treatment, ranges between 70 and 90%.[8] One may therefore reasonably suppose that, at Birkenau, in the years 1943-1944, the mortality rate of young gypsy children stricken with noma was even higher. In 1943, 2,587 children below the age of 10 in the gypsy camp died,[9] including practically all those suffering from noma.
Surprisingly, gassing that many people per day was no problem, on the traditional view. Treblinka had, for most of its existence, 10 chambers with a combined capacity of nearly 40,000 gassings per day; 5,000 would have been a walk in the park. Corpse disposal, on the other hand, would have been a nightmare. Burying the first 700,000 victims would have required astoundingly huge graves. If we accept Arad’s claim of four such graves, each would have had to be something like 15 x 120 meters in area, and 8 meters deep (as Edward claimed), to hold all those bodies. Combined, this is an area equivalent to 1.4 times as large as a professional American football field, and 26 feet deep. (And where did they put all that dirt, by the way?) Upon dumping the bodies for nine months, the Germans then, allegedly, covered the whole mess up—just in time to change their minds and decide to burn them all.
In August 1943 the Institute of Jewish Affairs of the American/World Jewish Congress in New York published a volume entitled Hitler's Ten-Year War on the Jews under the editorship of a certain Boris Schub. This surveyed the treatment of the Jews in each land occupied or controlled by Germany up to the time of publication, as well as the development of the National Socialist policy towards the Jews in Germany 1933-1943. The survey is based on five categories of sources (discussed in the preface, which is dated 20 August 1943): 1) official law gazettes and decrees issued in the Axis countries; 2) official newspapers of the Axis-supervised Jewish communities; 3) first-hand reports of diplomats and foreign correspondents stationed inside Axis territory and the "informed neutral press"; 4) published and unpublished materials of the governments in exile; and 5) the underground press, "documents and letters smuggled out of occupied Europe", and "eye-witness reports when corroborated by other evidence."
“The Germans killed the Jews either by beating them or by shooting them. I witnessed cases where the SS-men ... during the felling of the forests, forced Jews to stand beneath the trees which were about to fall down. In both cases 4 Jews were thus killed. Besides, it often happened that the SS-men raided the huts of the Jewish workers and killed them in cold blood... I was told by the SS-men that we were building a bath-house and it was after a considerable time that I realized that we were constructing gas chambers.”
THE PRESIDENT: Mr. Logan, this is trifling. I say it again to any Member of the Tribunal having a similar view.
In November 2001, Grumbach was elected as President of the CICAD, (Coordination Intercommunautaire contre l’Antisemitisme et la Diffamation) which is described as an “independent association fighting against Anti-Semitism in all its guises by teaching the history of Anti-Semitism and the Shoah.”[29]
But what about the Holocaust? What about the death camps and gas chambers? Isn’t this the terrible, inevitable outcome of Hitler’s warped vision?
Considered against the taboo-enshrouded mythos that accredited historians have done their part to establish as verity, the transparently fraudulent works of the troubled Holocaust memoirists profiled by Katsoulis are neither exceptional nor aberrant; their tales simply follow the line already cast into darkness unbound. And they work, perhaps too clumsily, within a narrative framework that guarantees a receptive readership. There is no cause for soul-searching here. Nor are there grounds for apology, such as that which Katsoulis tacitly extends on behalf of Wilkomirski when she observes that his discredited memoir is imbued with “an overwhelming feeling of young Benjamin’s powerlessness at the hands of the adult forces … who have total control over his fate.” Wilkomirski’s sense of childlike vertigo before implacable forces is entirely consonant with the meta-mythic idée fixe evinced in the explanatory reflections proffered by Hilberg, the real historian. The literary modus operandi is par for the course. A genre device.
The falsity of Nyiszli’s testimony is shown by the fact that he was not used as a witness at the I.G. Farben trial at Nuremberg. Charles D. Provan wrote: “Although Dr. Nyiszli was summoned to Nuremberg to testify in the I.G. Farben trial, he was not called to the stand, presumably because he was only at Monowitz for about two weeks, and could provide little in the way of useful evidence. At some point in the trial, he was released to return home to Romania.”[31]
However, the task is not as simple as it seems, because we are not dealing with a pristine crime scene as it was left behind by the alleged perpetrators. Quite to the contrary: it is a matter of record that two forensic/archaeological investigations were conducted there at war’s end or shortly thereafter, one by Soviet, the other by Polish authorities.[15] In addition, there is evidence suggesting that bombs were dropped onto the area of the former Treblinka Camp toward the end of the war, probably by Soviet aircraft, causing major devastation.[16] Furthermore, completely undocumented random digs by grave robbers have been going on for decades, as the site was left basically unguarded for decades after the war.
In Sobibor historian Schelvis’s own words: “Very few documents relating to Sobibor and the other death camps had actually survived. After the uprising, Globocnik wrote to Himmler that ‘the evidence should be destroyed as quickly as possible, now that all else has been destroyed,’ and virtually all of the incriminating documents were burnt soon thereafter.”[100]
The filling of the gas chamber by the SS, described by Venezia, contains an obvious contradiction in terms:
The “asocial” element of habitual criminals in 1942 began to be worked to death in what McDonough calls “yet another example of the broad genocide policy being carried out by the Nazi regime.”89 The “work-shy,” those who had, being fit for work, quit two jobs without reason, and refused employment, started to be interned in 1938 as forced labor. McDonough claims that they could be the subjects of medical experiments.90
These six so-called death camps, or extermination camps, were never labeled as such by the Germans. They all served different purposes, ran for different periods of time, and experienced different mortality rates. In fact the only points of commonality, according to traditionalism, are (a) they all held large numbers of Jews, and (b) they all contained homicidal gas chambers.
At the Nuremberg trial (1945-1946), a tribunal of the victors accused a defeated Germany notably
Like things that profess to be “natural,” the Holocaust wraps itself in an indignant unquestionability. This is what makes it so interesting to Rollins. He writes that “American academics have reacted to Holocaust revisionism with the same degree of open-mindedness as was displayed by the astronomers who refused to look through Galileo’s telescope but nevertheless ‘knew’ that he could not possible have discovered any new heavenly bodies with it.” Theirs is a tyrannical rationality, because they refuse to accept any conclusions other than those they concoct themselves. If a researcher’s findings fall outside their paradigm, they can simply write him off as a lunatic or a criminal or whatever. Because, as Rollins points out, the premise that “all reputable historians accept the six million figure smacks of a tautology. If [a professional Holocauster] defines ‘reputable historians’ to mean ‘historians who have accepted the six million figure,’ then what he says is, by definition, true, but also trivial because there is no reason why anyone else should accept such an obviously loaded definition.”
Obviously, the ever-so-clever hacks and shammashim (I don't  know what that word means, ask them) have not twigged to the true and sole reason for all this: exposing the fakers!!! The fact is, that anyone can build himself his own "personal gassing victim" in just a few steps! This "victim" will then be included in the "official count" of "Shoah victims"… all you need to do is access the official site of the Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum in Jerusalem, fill out a form, invent the names, dates, data and even cause of death of some [imaginary] grandfather, uncle or acquaintance, send it in, and – presto! – after a very short while, you'll receive a beautiful certificate by post, to be printed out and framed... and, obviously, the name of the "gassing victim" (which you've just invented out of whole cloth, from A to Z, will be included in the official list of victims... no marital/family status is required, and there is no inquiry as to the veracity of the data you supply… you fill out a form and – presto! – the number swells like a balloon… this is the level of seriousness of the Holocaust researchers.
According to Holocaust historians only two transports of foreign Jews reached Lithuania: one convoy departing from Berlin on 17 November 1941 and another departing from Vienna on 23 November 1941. Based on the so-called Jäger Report, mainstream historiography asserts that these Jews upon arrival were brought to Kovno's Ninth Fort and murdered there. It is possible, though they were in fact transferred later to Vilnius. On 12 March 1942 Herman Kruk noted in his diary that 2,000 Jews, most of them from Vienna, had been brought to the public housing on Subocz Street in Vilnius.[13]a Mainstream historians do not acknowledge any transports of Jews from Western Europe to Lithuania except for a small transport of French Jews in May 1944, i.e. a year after the publication of the reviewed volume.
The tour of liberated concentration camps became a ritual in the occupied Germany of late April and early May. American officers forced local citizens and German POWs to view the camps. German civilians were paraded against their will in front of the sickening piles of dead bodies found in the German camps.[28]
Novick’s support for the mainstream body of Holocaust sensationalism appears frequently in the book. It is firm, unequivocal, and full-throated. Such a performance would not be notable in itself—in 2014 as in 1999—but the attentive reader will be struck, if not outraged, to find the author spiritedly engaging in his own Holocaust revisionism as concerns a group of victims who are not, at least per se, Jewish. That group is homosexuals, whom the National Socialists prosecuted only in aggravated cases involving rape, pedophilia, or other public disturbances promoting the offender’s “alternative sexual orientation.”
[12] Kahn, Robert A., Holocaust Denial and the Law: A Comparative Study, New York: Palgrave MacMillan, 2004, p. 119.
This wooden shed located just outside the alleged gas chamber can be seen in many photos and film footages shot right after the liberation. It was located where today the two Zyklon B slots are located. But according to Chavez, it did not contain any slots, but rather some not clearly identified equipment.
Some more questionable assertions were provided by Jewish former ALP minister Barry Cohen.[121] He began his article with historical assertions that I do not believe are in accord with reality: “As General Dwight Eisenhower led the Allied forces that swept across Europe, he could not believe what he saw as he walked through the concentration camps and gas chambers in which millions of Jews died, along with social democrats, communists, Gypsies, homosexuals and any group hated by the Nazis. Eisenhower demanded that everything be recorded so future generations couldn’t claim it didn’t happen. It hasn’t stopped the idiot brigade from spreading their vile ideas. Fortunately, most of the world’s population know what happened during World War II and they believe it.” Eisenhower no doubt visited German concentration camps and instructed his personnel to record details; but most or all of the rest of Cohen’s assertions may be his own elaboration on what occurred and how it is viewed.
At Birkenau, along about midnight, with SS men every six feet, “tommy guns” at the ready, Elie and his father are permanently to be separated from Elie’s mother and sisters.[5] The men are formed in columns of fives and while they are so doing, an unknown prisoner comes telling what is in store for them… at Auschwitz (sic?). “Haven’t you heard about it?” And because they have not, he tells them. “See that chimney over there? See it? Do you see those flames?... You’re going to be burned. Frizzled away. Turned into ashes.” And here my readers you will be astounded to realize is the modus Elie thought proper and fitting to propound for his Nobel Peace Prize winning novel: flames, not gas, but flames![6]
On 2 November 2007, under the title 'A Priest Sets an Example for the Historians', Le Monde des Livres published a laudatory review of Father Desbois's book. This Catholic priest, director of the National Service for Relations with Judaism at the Conference of Bishops of France, describes the research conducted by himself in Ukraine starting in 2002, “on the traces of the Shoah by bullets,” intended to locate the graves containing the corpses of more than one million Jews murdered during the Second World War. The author of the article, Alexandra Laignel-Lavastine, speaks of an "extraordinary undertaking," likely to “upset our preconceived ideas" on this aspect of the genocide.
As I do not know this order, I asked David Irving to send me a copy. On April 9, he answered that he would do so later. Since I have yet to receive the document, I am unable to comment on it. However I am absolutely sure that it does not contain any reference to mass murder, for if this were the case, it would be quoted in every traditional study of the Holocaust.
Setkiewicz then states that two more travel permits exist for 1942. The first, issued on 26 August, was “for picking up material for special treatment” (“von zur Abholung Materialen für Sonderbeh.[andlung]”; see Document 11 in the appendix of my upcoming book). The other of 2 October refers to a 5-ton truck with trailer “for picking up materials for the resettlement of the Jews” (“zwecks Abholung von Materialien für die Judenumsiedlung”; see Document 12 in the appendix of my upcoming book). Strangely enough, he does not comment on these alleged “criminal traces,” so that I refer to what I have set out elsewhere in this respect (Mattogno 2015a, pp. 214-228). Here I note only that the orthodox interpretation of these two documents would require a double accounting for the purchase of Zyklon B, one for disinfestation and the other for homicidal purposes. This not only makes little sense, it is also inconsistent with the alleged intention of the SS to “camouflage” discussion of their activities, which was supposedly done by using some sort of “code language.” Seen from that point of view, it evidently would have been much easier to order all the Zyklon B for the purpose of disinfestation and then allocate the required amount to the claimed homicidal gassings.
What is the difference between “deliberate targeting of civilians,” and genocide, the killing of people because of “who” they are? The Germans in World War II are accused by many, including the people running Israel and its IDF today, of “targeting civilians”—Jews primarily—for death. Today, a global network of “Holocaust Memorials” commemorates this very accusation, along with its verdict and sentence of irredeemable guilt upon the German people.
In early 2005, Yad Vashem, the official Israeli institute charged with managing the memory of the extermination of the Jews by the Germans, made publicly accessible a database of victims of the Shoah. At that point, it contained approximately three million names of "Jews who perished in the Shoah." The long-term goal is to find the names of "the six million Jewish victims." This paper reports about the results of a first critical look into the contents of this database. A random sampling reveals that the database not only contains the names of survivors, but it also has double or even multiple entries for single individuals. The total number of entries in that database therefore says little if anything about the number of individuals who died in the "Shoah."
[3] Lipstadt, Deborah E., History on Trial: My Day in Court with David Irving, New York: HarperCollins Publishers Inc., 2005, p. xviii; see also Lipstadt, Deborah E., Denying the Holocaust: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory, New York: The Free Press, 1993, p. 161.
With her book Denying the Holocaust, Deborah Lipstadt tried to show the flawed methods and extremist motives of “Holocaust deniers,” who, so the book’s description claims, have “no more credibility than the assertion that the earth is flat.”
“at Birkenau. I am not sorry, my Metsos, that I will die, but that I will not be able to avenge as I want and know.
As French Revisionist Robert Faurisson so rightly pointed out, one of the reasons that Ernst Zundel was deported from Canada to a prison cell in Germany is because the Canadian authorities believed his Holocaust revisionist views destabilize the government of Germany.[128]
On p. 207 we learn that a “Holocaust by smothering” occurred in a Ukrainian village called Bertniki. A local resident who hid Jews smothered them with quilts during the night. On the other hand, a witness in Busk spoke of a woman who managed to hide an entire Jewish family in her cellar, while two Germans also lived with her—a commendable feat of concealment.
Wiernik also wrote that handsome Bulgarian Jews were discriminated against: “These handsome Jews were not permitted an easy death. Only small quantities of gas were let into the chambers, so that their agony lasted through the night.”[22] This would have made the gassing process at Treblinka even more inefficient. I wonder how 870,000 Jews could have been killed by such inefficient methods.
A series of daily reports, not mentioned by H. Kubica, although they can be found precisely at the Auschwitz Museum, the Arbeitseinsatz (assignment of labour) of the Birkenau Camp,[20] reports starting from 28 July up to 3 October 1944 (the reports are complete only for the month of August) bears the heading “Zwillinge für Versuchzwecke” (twins for experimental purposes). In the 35 reports which are preserved, the number of these inmates never varies: it always reads 49. This absence of variation over a period of more than three months allows one to rule out any continual replacement of “guinea pigs”, and is fully compatible with the “anthropometric, morphological, psychiatric and radiological examinations” mentioned above.
As with the other trials conducted at Dachau, the Mauthausen trial was a blatant show- and revenge-trial—that is, no trial at all. The use of torture and deception to produce false confessions, lax rules of evidence and procedure, the presumption that defendants were guilty unless proven innocent, American military judges with little or no legal training, obviously false eyewitness testimony, the nonexistence of any appeal, and the nonexistence of any independent reviewing authority ensured the conviction of all the Mauthausen defendants and the execution of most of them.
It is both striking and challenging to the historian to read these kinds of articles and statements. It is not good enough to simply write off such pointed historical evidence as being of interest only to right wing extremists or conspiracy theorists. That is, in layman’s language, a cop-out. History has to look openly at all the evidence and then attempt to provide a narrative that best fits that evidence.
Many people find the jailhouse confessions of German prisoners proof of the veracity of the Holocaust story. But consider the confession of a German soldier, Arno Düre, who told Soviet prosecutors he had helped bury thousands of Poles executed in the Katyn Forest Massacre. After the fall of the Soviet Union, the Russians, who blamed the massacre on the Germans at Nuremberg, admitted they were the guilty party. No German, including Herr Düre, was anywhere near.5 Many similar confessions by higher-ranking Nazis have proven equally counterfactual.6
At the postwar Nuremberg Tribunal, the Allies declared that the Germans exterminated four million people at the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp. Until 1990, a memorial plaque at Auschwitz read: 'Four Million People Suffered and Died Here at the Hands of the Nazi Murderers Between the Years 1940 and 1945.'"[11] During a June 1979 visit to the camp, Pope John Paul II stood before this memorial and prayed for and blessed the alleged four million victims.[12]
Of course, not all cases are that straight forward, but you get the idea. Here is a pyramid of the various kinds of evidence, with the most reliable at the top and the least reliable at the bottom.
Dr. Wilhelm Stäglich also wrote that he did not see any evidence of genocide of the Jews at Auschwitz. Stäglich, a German judge, visited Auschwitz several times during the Second World War as a German orderly officer of an anti-aircraft detachment. Dr. Stäglich published an account of his visits to Auschwitz in which he stated that on none of these visits did he see gassing installations, instruments of torture, or similar horrors. Stäglich wrote:[25]
Erich Bauer was supposedly nicknamed “The Gasmeister of Sobibor”. In 1950 he was sentenced to death (later commuted to life imprisonment) by a West German court for operating the “Sobibor gas chambers.” According to a “confession” penned by Bauer while in prison, the first gas chambers were in a “wooden building on a concrete base.”[41]
Australian journalist Michael Barnard, who steadfastly spoke out against the ‘Nazi war crimes’ campaign until he was removed from his position as a columnist for The Age newspaper in Melbourne, wrote in the issue of that paper on 10th December 1991 an article headed ‘Will Israel play fair over this disturbing “war crimes” case?’ Contemplating the second Israeli case, whose result had not yet been announced, he wrote: ‘If guilt is upheld, the court will be seen by many as pursuing a cause – publicising the Holocaust, for this in part is what such trials are about – to the exclusion of significant doubt that would fail to sustain a conviction in such countries as Australia.’
However, it is highly doubtful that the name lists of transports that have been preserved contain more than (4,000,000 - 350,000 =) 3,650,000 names. The most important name registries (Germany, France, Belgium, Theresienstadt, Netherlands) contain a total amount of about 280,000 names. It should be noted that the deportation lists to Theresienstadt refer to the “Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia”, roughly the present Czech Republic, but include deportees from Germany, as well; furthermore, all the deceased deportees confirmed by documents are already included in the death books of the camps or ghettos. In particular, most of the Jews deported from the abovementioned countries were sent to Auschwitz and the deceased are contained in the respective death registers. For the eastern camps there is a deportation list with about 34,000 names of Dutch Jews to Sobibór (already included in the above figure of 280,000). Putting together all the other transport lists, it’s possible to get 300,000, up to 350,000 names, yet there would still remain 3,300,000 missing names: where do they come from?
In the end, Malkin is not really successful in proving her thesis, however it is framed: there is no convincing evidence that the national security threat posed by Japanese Americans was a sufficient reason for the draconian nature of the deportations. What her book does present, however much she may wish to downplay it, is a situation in which war hysteria, fueled by Pearl Harbor and a hatred of non-Whites and specifically Japanese, led to a situation in which local and federal governments approved the deportations as a way of maintaining public order. In plain English, the Japanese were interned to placate a potentially angry mob.
Nadjari’s manuscripts contradict both themselves and the official storyline, and even make it hard to determine whether he actually worked in a crematorium. What is certain is that they contain obviously false statements that any historian would pretend were never there.
As referred to above, Lipstatdt vehemently condemns those who have the chutzpah or the naiveté to suggest that any event in history is even comparable to ‘The Holocaust’. She refers specifically to the alleged Armenian genocide as one such example. She states that ‘it was not part of a process of total annihilation of an entire people’,[43] while Hovannisian asserts, to the contrary, that it was ‘more than genocide, more than holocaust’. If Mr Hovannisian is not in hot water for such heretical views then the Anti-Defamation League, The Wiesenthal Center, and the rest of the multitudinous Judaeocentric gaggle throughout the world, are off their game.
Williamson fails to acknowledge in this passage that Germany did not have a program of genocide against the Jews, and that Schindler’s List is a manipulative propaganda movie. Williamson states that she is always open to learning more.[24] Hopefully, she will eventually study the so-called Holocaust and learn that the official Holocaust story is fraudulent.
Snyder’s basic thesis is that millions, if not tens of millions, of people perished or were put to death in the region between the Bug and Volga rivers, with Belarus at the center of destruction, and that these people perished largely because of competition between Germany and Russia over the area’s economic resources (chiefly agricultural), and that this is the larger context, or the “ignored” context, of the Jewish Holocaust.
The total number of Jews in Slovakia as per the census of 15 December 1940 amounted to 88,951.[10] A deportation agreement reached between Germany and Slovakia in 1941 stipulated that the Slovakian government would pay Germany 500 Reichsmark per deportee for “shelter, food, clothing, and retraining” (Unterbringung, Verpflegung, Bekleidung und Umschulung), a cost which Raul Hilberg naturally dismisses as “fictional expenses”.[11] Deportations from Slovakia began on 26 March 1942. Up until October the same year a total of 57,752 Jews were deported; 18,746 were sent to Auschwitz while 39,006 were taken to a ghetto in Nałęczów near Lublin. From this ghetto some 9,000 of them proceeded to Majdanek, while 24,378 were sent to be gassed at Sobibór.[12] Jules Schelvis on the other hand concludes that, all in all, “around 26,000” Slovakian Jews were “gassed” at Sobibór.[13] During 1942 some 7,000 Slovak Jews managed to escape to Hungary.[14] Of the Jews that remained in Slovakia some 13,000 – 14,000 were eventually arrested. In October 1944, 7,936 of them were deported to Auschwitz, while 4,370 were sent to Sachsenhausen and Theresienstadt.
Revisionist historians concede that Germany persecuted Jews during World War II. National-Socialist Germany saw Jews as being an influential force behind international communism, and therefore considered Jews to be a potential danger to their war effort. Consequently, Jews were sent to concentration camps, forced to live in ghettos, conscripted for labor, stripped of their civil rights, and suffered extreme hardships. Unfortunately, many Jews died in the German concentration camps during World War II.
Historian Tomaz Jardim writes concerning these verdicts: “Given the brevity of deliberations, it is clear that the judges spent no significant amount of time reviewing the evidence, examining legal precedent, or evaluating the issues surrounding the common-design charge that defense counsel had raised. In all likelihood, the judges had begun deliberations with their minds made up.”[22]
Of course, even if we were given such a list, we could not accept it at face value. We have to ask further questions, probing a bit deeper. What are the numbers at each of the six death camps, such that we can justify a total of 3 million? Which of the leading ‘other camps’ had the highest death rates, and what were those numbers—such that we can plausibly account for another 400,000? Which were the leading ghettos, and how many died in each of those—such that we can account for 1 million? (Beware: In order to count as ‘ghetto deaths,’ these must have occurred in the ghettos; someone who was removed from a ghetto and shipped to Auschwitz obviously cannot count as both a ‘ghetto death’ and an Auschwitz death.) There were four main Einsatzgruppen units. We know when and where they operated. How many did each kill, such that we can account for a large majority of the 1.6 million?
Another fact of capital importance: we have demolished the myth of the secret Shoah in the East. In effect, the executions took place in the light of day, in the village or just outside.[19]
“Inside there were hollow pillars, placed every 8 meters. The pillars were covered with pierced metal plates, which had holes of 15 mm and through them the gas entered the chamber.”
This issue of Inconvenient History features an article by Friedrich Jansson that is appropriate to the Year 2014, designated by the Sejm (legislature) of Poland the Year of (Jan) Karski, the intrepid courier/witness for the London-based government-in-exile of Poland, born in Poland one hundred years ago. The article discloses, for the first time of which I, an occasional student of the matter, am aware, the tortuous experience of the reports rendered in December 1942 by Karski, whose effigies today grace parks and university campuses from New York to Jerusalem. Celebrated in a 1994 hagiography titled Karski: How One Man Tried to Stop the Holocaust, his exploits on one undercover mission into the heart of German-occupied Europe have, as delineated in Jansson’s masterful recapitulation, undergone a series of (partial) expungements and reconstructions that in their particulars and in their severity uncannily mimic the expungements and reconstructions that produced the Holocaust Narrative(s) with which everyone, at least who grew up in the West in the Twentieth Century, has been inculcated, with the usual result of entrenched, if unconsidered, belief in extensive untruths.
“I once looked into the gas chamber when there were people inside. […] The people were lying there on the floor. They lay irregularly on top of one another. I think they were naked […] I was to take a look to see how the gas works. Perschon had asked me to attend the gassing.”
German historian Dr. Peter Longerich is regarded by many as one of the leading authorities on the “Holocaust.” Journalist D. D. Guttenplan calls Longerich “one of the most accomplished German historians of the Holocaust in the generation born after the war.”[1]
3) The transports of Jews from Reich Commissariate Ostland to Sobibór were limited to a brief period of time, namely September 1943, when several of the major ghettos in Reich Commissariate Ostland (e.g. the Minsk and Vilna ghettos) were either evacuated or replaced by concentration camps. Jules Schelvis estimates that some 13,700 Jews from Lida, Minsk and Vilna were deported to Sobibór between September 18 and 24, 1943 in six or eight convoys (most of which cannot be conclusively verified due to a lack of documentation).[87] Orthodox historiography admits that a considerable number of these Jews were transited via Sobibór to labor camps in the Lublin district. These instances include 630 Jews out of a transport of reportedly 1,400 Jews from Lida who were sent on to Trawniki and Lublin, and 225 specialists from a Minsk transport in mid-September transferred to Trawniki.[88] At least some 80 to 100 Soviet-Jewish POWs deported from Minsk were also employed in the Sobibór camp itself, in a dismantling plant for captured Soviet munitions.[89] There are also reports of Jews deported from Minsk in September 1943 reaching the Lublin district via other routes. A certain Marie Mack has stated that on an unspecified day in September 1943 she and some 1,000 other Russian and German Jews were deported from Minsk to Lublin.[90] The German Jew Heinz Rosenberg states in his memoirs that he was part of a convoy of 1,000 Jews deported from Minsk to Treblinka on September 14, 1943; upon arriving in Treblinka, Rosenberg and a group of 249 other skilled workers were separated from the rest and transferred to the Budzyn labor camp.[91] The inescapable conclusion is that these Jews were evacuated west to be utilized as labor in the Lublin district. Here again Sobibór (and possibly Treblinka) served as a transit camp, although the flow of transports this time was in the opposite direction.
As for the testimony of Isak Lieber this cannot be admitted as evidence for our hypothesis, as good as it may sound. In an article[59] on Riegner the late revisionist researcher Jean-Marie Boisdefeu has pointed out that Lieber in his testimony to Belgian authorities stated that he had been sent not to Stalingrad, but to the coast of France to work on construction of the “Atlantic wall”. Moreover, the name of Isak Lieber is not to be found in the transport lists of Jews deported east from the Malines collection camp. The author has confirmed that no Isak Lieber (or any variant of that name) appears in the transport lists for the relevant period (July-August 1942). While it cannot be 100% ruled out that Lieber was on a transport under another name, or (as Klarsfeld and others confirm sometimes happened) he was a last-minute addition to one of the transports, and that for some reason he later lied about his deportation to the Belgian authorities, we cannot accept his testimony as evidence for the present hypothesis on grounds of unreliability.[60]
Even as New Orleans dismantles and sequesters the 1877 statue of Robert E. Lee adorning the center of “Lee Circle” in New Orleans, ground is being broken in London’s Victoria Tower Gardens Park for a memorial to the victims of the Holocaust.
The Polish historian also emphatically insisted that approximately three million Jews died during the course of the “Holocaust,” and not six million, as is generally maintained by most mainstream “Holocaust” historians, and underlined his conviction that the Nazis possessed no systematic plan to exterminate the Jews of Europe.
On March 1, 1996, twenty-one scholars and historians from various universities throughout Italy published a statement in defense of free speech and historical research. The professors courageously criticized the enactment of “Holocaust-denial” laws in France, Germany and other countries, specifically citing a French government ban on a book authored by Jürgen Graf simply because it denied the “Holocaust.” The scholars pleaded for reason to prevail over repression:
1. The Real Case for Auschwitz by the already-mentioned Carlo Mattogno.[7] This thick volume of some 750 pages thoroughly discusses all the relevant documentary evidence on those buildings which are said to have contained homicidal gas chambers. This is the main foundation upon which Cole based his conclusion that the evidence for the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz “just isn’t there,” and that “the evidence that does exist calls that claim into question.”
It seems clear that promotion of the Holocaust dogma is one of the chief motivations of the campaign to ‘bring to justice’ alleged ‘Nazi war criminals’. This is used as a justification of the obviously selective nature of the whole operation, other ‘war criminals’ being left alone. Part of an unpublished letter I sent to The Australian on 13 June in response to its editorial read as follows: ‘That The Australian is itself biased in this great issue is suggested by your clichéd opening that ‘the Holocaust is the defining atrocity of the 20th Century’ (a curiously vague statement), which needs to be related to your complete refusal to publish the news of the deportation of Holocaust revisionist Ernst Zundel from Canada to Germany in March. An alleged historical event which is not allowed to be openly discussed from all points of view in the public forums is immediately open to grave doubt; and this is more so when its challengers are judicially punished and official silence about their punishment has become the order of the day. Everything in the Zentai case smacks of conspiracy and manipulation by a semi-secret Establishment for which you are acting as publicity agent.’[119]
Recently, the heartrending tales of a 95-year-old Pennsylvanian named Joseph Hirt were revealed to be a hoax. Hirt claimed to have been kidnapped by the Nazis and confined in Auschwitz. He illustrated his talks to high school audiences with a photo of an emaciated concentration camp inmate he claimed to be himself. A knowledgeable teacher recognized the photo as one of an inmate of the Dachau concentration camp and exposed other holes in Hirt’s story. When confronted with his lies, Hirt said “I'm sick and I'm tired and I'm old and I don't need this crap." In a comical unintended evocation of the slanderous Holocaust-denier charge, Hirt’s nephew said of his uncle, “He's in complete denial.”1 The blurring of memory with delusion is not uncommon amongst Holocaust survivors, and not just nonagenarians.
…I assume then, you would not regard your forthcoming book on the expulsion of ethnic Germans from central Europe as ‘relativising the Holocaust’, which is the contention of Dr Lipstadt on such subjects?  I note that the Yale University Press description of your book states that the expulsions were the worst examples of ‘ethnic cleansing’, which would certainly qualify for Dr Lipstadt’s term.[37]
31. The commandant of Sachsenhausen is greeted … at roll call, February 1941.
Iowa Supreme Court Justice Charles F. Wennerstrum, who served as the presiding judge in the Nuremberg trial of German generals, resigned his appointment in disgust at the proceedings. In an interview with the Chicago Tribune, he criticized the one-sided handling of evidence in the trials. Wennerstrum said that selection of the evidence in the trials was made by the prosecution from the large tonnage of captured German records. The defense had access only to those documents which the prosecution considered material to the case.[1]
Mengele was interested in the study of twins, especially identical twins. Twins selected for Mengele’s observation at Auschwitz were given good food, comfortable beds and hygienic living conditions to build up their health. The purpose of building up the twins’ health was to prevent infections from interfering with the results of studies. Many of the Auschwitz twins adored Mengele, affectionately calling him “Uncle Pepi.”[18]
But this was also declared by Prof. Roman Dawidowski, prosecution expert at the Höss trial, and accepted by the examining magistrate J. Sehn, who wrote that the crematory ovens of Auschwitz-Birkenau required every day "an interval of three hours to clean the gas producers of slag"[215].
Desbois nevertheless personally admits that "it was not possible to conduct the investigation as it should been performed, since we had to follow Jewish law, which prohibited us from moving the bones" (p. 227), which means that the investigation is valueless from the point of view of forensics.
“Der Nazi-Holocaust könnte bis zu 20 Millionen Menschenleben gefordert haben,”
It seems that somehow, Sergeant (or whatever his rank was) Page had a good deal of direct contact and actual dealings with Captain Wirz. While an actual friendship could hardly have grown up between commandant and inmate, Page claims a notably cordial working relationship between the two soldiers and describes it in detail on a number of significant and specific occasions. In this period, Page acquired an in-depth understanding of Wirz’s character, interests, and even foibles that undoubtedly informed his view of the subsequent tribunal proceedings against him.
Someday, very quietly I am sure, Butz’s book will be taken up once again by Amazon. I wonder if they’re saving the hundreds of reviews and ratings received by the past incarnation of the title on their august pages, to restore when that inevitable day comes. Most likely, at the time of this anticipated event, people will care much less than they do now about the Holocaust whether they believe in it, decline to believe, or have never even heard of it. By that time, people may not care very much about Amazon’s whitelist of books, either.
“at its core [Holocaust denial] poses a threat to all who believe that knowledge and memory are among the keystones of our civilization.” – unquote.
At the camp Sperling was selected for work and made a member of the “sorting squad” working in the “reception camp”. He never set foot in the “upper camp” or “death camp proper”, where the alleged gas chambers and the mass graves were located, so his description of that area is based only on second-hand sources. The details of the alleged killing method were relayed to Sperling and his fellow inmates in Camp I by prisoners assigned to carry food between the different parts of the camp (p. 247-248):
Allied prosecutors used torture to help convict the defendants at the IMT and other postwar trials. A leading example of the use of torture to obtain evidence at the Nuremberg trials is the confession of Rudolf Höss, who was a former commandant at Auschwitz. Höss’s testimony at the IMT was probably the most important and striking evidence presented there of a German extermination program. Höss said that more than two and a half million people were exterminated in the Auschwitz gas chambers, and that another 500,000 inmates had died there of other causes.[13] No defender of the Holocaust story today accepts these inflated figures, and other key portions of Höss’s testimony at the IMT are widely acknowledged to be untrue.
From whichever point of view one looks at the story of homicidal gassings at Majdanek – whether from a historical, a technical or a logical one – it always turns out to be absurd. Only two types of readers will thus be impressed by Thomas Kranz’s kind of deceptive “evidence”: the naïve who believe themselves to be reading the study of a serious historian, and committed believers in the Holocaust, who say “my mind is made up, don’t confuse me with the facts”.
Fischer would even tell first-time acquaintances that the Holocaust was a hoax. For example, Dutch Chess Grandmaster Jan Timman writes about his only meeting with Bobby Fischer in 1990 in Brussels: “It was inevitable that the conversation would touch on the Holocaust. ‘It is a hoax,’ he said very softly, almost mumbling.”[xvi]
Butz’s book is replete with the same expressions of traditional antisemitism, philo-Germanism and conspiracy theory as the Holocaust denial pamphlets printed by the most scurrilous neo-Nazi groups. (p. 126)
Many witnesses also claim that smoke constantly covered all of Auschwitz/Birkenau. However, none of the aerial photos taken of Birkenau by Allied reconnaissance planes since late May 1944 shows a column of smoke from any of the crematories. This is so even though these facilities were allegedly cremating the Jews deported from Hungary at their peak capacity.[15]
During our discussion the question of excavations arose. On the traditional view, the ash was reburied in the graves that held the bodies; even today, there would be literally tons of it remaining. But as we know, there have been no attempts to unearth evidence of mass graves, or to measure or quantify ashes or human remains—not one single attempt, in nearly 70 years. It is almost as if the powers that be did not want to confirm the truth. Perhaps they suspected, in the back of their minds, that the conventional storyline would not hold up. So, I was quite surprised to hear that a team from Birmingham University (UK) was preparing to conduct a non-invasive study of the mass graves, using a ground-penetrating radar. I made a note to myself to follow the progress of this very interesting development.
Chamberlain further stated that America’s entry into World War II was based on illusions:
[8] Hoffman, Michael A., The Great Holocaust Trial, 3rd edition, Dresden, N.Y., Wiswell Ruffin House, 1995, pp. 45-47.
The New York Times on May 31, 1936, published an article headlined “Americans Appeal for Jewish Refuge.” This article appealed to Great Britain to “…throw open the gates of Palestine and let in the victimized and persecuted Jews escaping from the European holocaust.”[8] Also in 1936, Chaim Weizmann is reported to have said to the Peel Commission: “It is no exaggeration to say that 6 million Jews are sentenced to be imprisoned in this part of the world, where they are unwanted, and for whom the countries are divided into those, where they are unwanted, and those, where they are not admitted.” [9] On January 9, 1938, the New York Times reported another false claim of 6-million Jewish victims of persecution.[10]
As is readily apparent from the radio messages, this unusually high number of Abgänge was due to a typhus epidemic at Auschwitz.[6] Typhus, sometimes also known as “camp fever” is, as is well known, transmitted by fleas and lice; under poor hygienic circumstances it will inevitably appear in almost any such  camp. According to the decoded radio messages, it took the Auschwitz authorities approximately four months to bring the epidemic under control. The numbers only fell back down to the average figure of approximately 2,000 Abgänge per month in November and December 1942.
[9] Mattogno, Carlo and Nyiszli, Miklos, An Auschwitz Doctor’s Eyewitness Account: The Bestselling Tall Tales of Dr. Mengele’s Assistant Analyzed, Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2020, pp. 391-407.
The implication of Icke’s statement is that IBM was complicit in the so-called Holocaust.
As a result of this historical treatment, the title itself has become symbolic and invested with meaning through simplification and popular misunderstanding. The Holocaust has come to exist as much as a fable as a scholarly researched and documented occurrence. Authors like Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel do little to help this situation, by writing books which hover between classification as fiction or memoir. Some people read ‘Night’ and believe in it as an accurate record of life in a concentration camp. Others, who question some of its more bizarre details are told it has been partially fictionalized. In other words, anything goes, all bases are covered. As a fiction, the work is beyond criticism and if some choose to treat it as fact, they are not dissuaded from doing so. From the birth of the narrative, the Holocaust has existed like this – in rational, scientific, historical discourse but also in a feverish, victim obsessed, fantasy world where even the most absurd claims are accepted. The recent example of Misha DeFonseca, who told a sorry tale of surviving the Holocaust as a child by walking five thousand miles across Nazi occupied Europe under the care and protection of a pack of wolves demonstrates this. She was initially supported by several luminaries, including Elie Wiesel, who described her book as ‘very moving’ and was invited to speak at a number of universities, before finally being outed as a fraud. She was merely the latest in a procession of similar cases. Within the unhealthy, noncritical culture that surrounds the Holocaust, distortions, exaggerations and manipulations are commonplace as historians and writers seek to make that which they are explaining easier for their readers to understand. In choosing to highlight certain aspects of the event and minimalizing or even ignoring others, which all writers must do, to avoid their works being exhaustively long, historians usually demonstrate nothing more than their own subjectivity; their own assumptions in approaching the issue formed through their own set of personal biases. Never has this been truer than in relation to the Holocaust at Nuremberg.
The (financial) damages Irving sought were paltry indeed compared to the financial holocaust that ensued from his juridical initiative: a mere £500, to be donated to a fund in memory of his late daughter, Josephine. This was tempting for the co-defendant, Penguin Books, who was, after all, running a business rather than pursuing a cause, and they wanted to settle with Irving. But Lipstadt, Holocaust Warrior that she is, would have none of this, and threatened to sue Penguin if they entered into any such settlement of the suit. Maybe Penguin didn’t quite appreciate the influence Lipstadt and her tribe exerted over the English judiciary. That is, after all, a Top Secret. Either way, it worked out well so far as the verdict was concerned, and the liability for the costs, too, but it would appear Penguin was left holding the bag for five digits of US dollars, all for Dr. Lipstadt’s cause. Maybe her Dorot bankrollers picked up some of this tab—strange and wonderful are the flows of money that fund Zionist causes, and we hoi poloi shall never uncover the mysteries thereof.
Defenders of the Holocaust story have sometimes made concessions to revisionist researchers. In the book Auschwitz: 1270 to Present, by Robert Jan van Pelt and Deborah Dwork, the two Jewish authors admit that the gas chamber shown tourists at the main Auschwitz camp is largely a postwar reconstruction built by the Polish government. The authors still allege, however, that there were gas chambers at Birkenau.[25]
Rajchman described the gas chambers at Treblinka in his memoirs:
As for Terry’s claim that Mattogno and Graf skirted the Dziennik Polski article “because it is so clearly a forgery” this is not correct either. The actual reason for its non-inclusion is simply that it was overlooked among the wealth of other material on the camp eventually reproduced and discussed in the study in question. [41] Nick Terry’s eagerness to ascribe forgeries and bad faith to his opponents without evidence to back up his accusations speaks for itself.
German military historian Joachim Hoffmann, while referring to the Gruppe Arlt activity reports (cf. §2.3) as evidence that at least 17,000 Jews were murdered at Trostenets, suggests that the victim figures claimed by the ESC (206,500 for Trostenets and 300,000 for the Minsk region) were used by Soviet propagandists to camouflage mass murders committed by the NKVD. Hoffmann cites an estimate that the number of NKVD victims in the Minsk region amounted to some 270,000; the graves of 102,000 of these victims were reportedly discovered near the village of Kuropaty in 1988.[16] Another source gives significantly lower estimates of the number of victims buried in Kuropaty (also spelled Kurapaty) of 30,000 or 7,000.[17]
Professor McGowan’s article is an example of denying the reality of the most studied and documented event in history. Holocaust denial carries absolutely no weight among academic scholars in any field whatsoever. Additionally, denying the undisputed facts of the holocaust is not a way to show support for the Palestinians. For example, his argument denying the intentionality of the Nazi’s execution of Jews is that there is not sufficient proof that it was designed to exterminate the Jewish population. Rather, he asserts, it may have been merely a program of “ethnic cleansing.” The suggestion that this somehow makes it less morally reprehensible speaks for itself, as we all know that the term “ethnic cleansing” was introduced to make genocide sound more palatable.
[14] Ditlieb Felderer, “Auschwitz Notebook: Doors & Portholes,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 1, No. 4 (winter 1980), pp. 365-370, here p. 366.
The statement continues that those condemned to death for non-political reasons were sent to the camp’s Gestapo on orders of the RSHA. They were killed with lethal injections, including gasoline. Doctors had to draw up normal death certificates giving a disease as the cause of death. In Auschwitz, several medical experiments were carried out on detainees by Dr. Karl Clauberg and Dr. Schumacher (sterilizations).
In fact, writing that Pressac “mentions even the invoice of the ventilation device for Crematorium III: invoice no. 729 of May 27, 1943”, which states a capacity of 4,800 m3/h, Mattogno only intended to underline the simple fact that Pressac was refuting himself.
The first book is marked by anti-German propaganda and is devoid of any reference to any sources regarding its claims on deportation of Jews from Ilkenau and Sosnowiec (German Sosnowitz) to Auschwitz. The second is marked by the total absence of any source references. In other words: both books back up their claims with – nothing. Here are these claimed deportations backed up by nothing:
Again, an obviously problematic and contradictory account. The gas is described as being “switched on” – rather than Zyklon B being thrown in – causing the victims to fall “like flies,” and yet many of them were still breathing after 15 minutes (which would have been impossible to discern by looking through a tiny peep-hole). Then the chamber was opened “to make the gas go away,” and those still alive were beaten to death. Why not wait for the gas to take effect? Furthermore, just opening a room doesn’t make any gas contained in it “go away.” Such a “natural ventilation” would have taken many hours, yet the description implies nothing of the sort.
Holocaust revisionism is increasingly dismissed as a “conspiracy theory.” Two authors have turned the tables on revisionism’s accusers and have analyzed the orthodox narrative as to whether it qualifies as a “conspiracy theory” – and yes, it does.
Indeed, legal analysts representing the World Jewish Congress and the Institute for Jewish Affairs were devising novel legal precedents whereby more people might be liable to prosecution by a careful rewording of current and proposed future legislation applicable to “Holocaust Denial.” In the same report cited above, the legal analysts suggest that “even if not accompanied by the charge of ‘Jewish Fabrication’ individuals might be prosecuted on the grounds that “it attacks human dignity – in this case, the dignity of the Jews or of the survivors.”[4]
A British forensic archaeologist has unearthed fresh evidence to prove the existence of mass graves at the Nazi death camp Treblinka—scuppering the claims of Holocaust deniers who say it was merely a transit camp. … Forensic archaeologist Caroline Sturdy Colls has now undertaken the first coordinated scientific attempt to locate the graves.
My interest in this regard is not the veracity of Dr Faurisson’s contentions. They might be totally erroneous. I frankly do not know, as the ‘Holocaust’ has only ever been of marginal interest to me. My concern is that such questions are as legitimate as any other form of historical revisionism, and that Dr Faurisson and countless other scholars, should no more be subjected to outright persecution for their research than Prof. Douglas or any other researcher pursuing a revisionist study on any subject.
The liberation of Dachau concentration camp is dramatized in the film Shutter Island. The Americans liberating Dachau came across what became known as “The Dachau Death Trains”. They saw bullet holes in the sides of the trains and dead prisoners inside in terrible condition, believing the Germans locked starved prisoners inside the trains, then machine gunned them, the Americans turned their fury to the capture of German guards.
The alleged meeting of the camp commandants at Sachsenhausen mentioned by Ziereis in his ”confession“ would have taken place in July (the Russian campaign started on 22 June 1941) or in August 1941 (according to the Soviets, the ”Russenaktion“ began in late August). Some of the commandants did not survive the war, and those who did were in most cases sentenced to death and executed. There is no evidence that any of them has confirmed the reality of the meeting at Sachsenhausen.
The problem that we have at the IMT is that both claims were forcibly promoted by the Allied powers and others prior to trial as part of their propaganda efforts. They could not be said therefore to have emerged through the evidence. They were already prevalent and evidence was produced to substantiate them. Significant parts of those claims – the existence of homicidal gas chambers,[12] for example – were never questioned by the court. They were regarded, as per the Charter, as ‘facts of common knowledge.’ We know this because nobody tried to disprove them. When it is remembered that every single defendant denied knowledge of homicidal gas chambers, yet not one lawyer tried a defense gambit based on questioning their existence, despite the fact that no physical evidence was provided for them at all, the reality becomes clear.
“To the Allies, the discovery of the camps proved a final justification of their war effort. In 1940, Churchill had proclaimed that a Nazi victory would bring “a new Dark Age made more sinister by perverted science.” The liberation of the camps proved that Churchill had not exaggerated the danger. And even though Auschwitz had been liberated by the Russians, the English and Americans heard many stories about that camp.”
“The destruction of the Jews in World War Two will remain an important object for study and commemoration among the Jewish people and the German people. The wars, revolutions, ethnic cleansings, famines, epidemics, and grand experiments in social engineering that dislocated many tens of millions of human beings, and killed a large proportion of them, and of which the Holocaust was a part, will be remembered by everyone who has a stake in the European inheritance. Like any series of events, it will be romanticized. Like any series of events, it will be mythologized. And, like any series of events, it will be properly understood only after the passage of time.”
Nyiszli also alleged in his book that, starting in August 1944, he was the doctor of the Sonderkommando for the Birkenau crematoria. The Romanian Jewish physician Charles Sigismund Bendel made the same claim at the Belsen trial in late 1945. Despite the fact that these two doctors presumably spent at least four months together in the same place, they were totally ignorant of each other. They also produced totally contradictory testimony in regard to their experiences at the Birkenau crematoria.[26]
If the defense has its evidence already present in the courtroom, the German Code of Criminal Procedure actually prohibits denying such evidence with the reason that the opposite of what the evidence is said to prove is self-evident, but the German courts do so regardless, and the Federal Supreme Court, which should correct such violations of the law, has repeatedly allowed and confirmed this practice.[23]
Cutting through the exaggerations, lies and propaganda of the Holocaust story has to be the starting ground for any contemporary revisionist. The territory is plagued with the minefield of charges of “Holocaust denial,” “racism,” “anti-Semitism,” and “neo-Nazism.” Despite the persecution and insults, revisionists understand that the myths of the Holocaust have smothered out a proper and accurate understanding of the Second World War.9
Tauber also said in his testimony: “Ober Capo August explained to us that, according to the calculations and plans for this crematorium, five to seven minutes was allowed to burn one corpse in a muffle.”[9] This is impossible even today, and using 1940s technology it took at least an hour to incinerate a corpse. No plan for any actual crematorium indicates otherwise.
“Is there a Jewish conspiratorial Holocaust hoax group. If there is one, I am not aware of one. Maybe you can point me in the right direction. Do you know anyone who has ever been in this group?”
In the aftermath of the war, the inquiry of the Central Commission for Investigation of German Crimes in Poland found that the alleged gas chambers “were situated in a building with stone-inside walls and wooden outside-walls.” They did admit, however, that their data is imprecise because none of their witnesses were actually employed in the “gas chamber” area.[36]
…the ADL has long denied that the Turkish massacre of 1.5 million Armenians from 1915 to 1923 amounted to genocide. Turkey is of course an ally and arms purchaser of Israel's, but the denial antedates this alliance. A good friend of mine, an Israeli expatriate, tells me that when he went to school in Israel, mention of the Armenian genocide was verboten so as not to detract from the "uniqueness" of the Jewish genocide under the Nazis and to maintain a "monopoly on suffering," as he puts it. Shoah business does not like the competition.[22]
Aside from the march from the train station to the camp, a number of other aspects of Part I, “Andersonville: The Prisoners and Their Keeper” reminded me of accounts of German concentration camps. Of these, the one that most stands out is the “poisoned vaccine” for smallpox that was administered for a time during Page’s term. The smallpox intended to be controlled actually had broken out, according to Page’s observation. It was effectively controlled, Page continues, by the prompt removal and quarantining of every affected inmate, and by the administration of a very likely crude vaccine to inmates who could not show evidence of having already been inoculated. Among those vaccinated, there was a notable number of fatal reactions, not altogether unexpected even with the best pharmaceutical technology and medical care available at the time, to say nothing of the pertinent standards prevailing at Andersonville.
The possibility that the Auschwitz for which Tesch supplied gas might have been somewhat larger than the Auschwitz which Marcinkowski gassed in early 1940 seems not to have occurred to Freud. Indeed, it was taken for granted by the investigating team that the quantity of Zyklon supplied to Auschwitz was so immense as to be sufficient to prove that large scale extermination of humans occurred at the camp. An entire segment of Tesch’s October 24 interrogation is devoted to Anton Freud’s rant against Tesch’s claim that the quantity supplied was not surprisingly large:
The 40 bottom openings for exhaust were placed behind the brickwork of Morgue #1, 20 on each side, alternating in location. The openings on the left side (having their backs toward the crematorium’s main building) were located at a distance of 152 cm from each other, measured at the center of each opening. The design project of March 10, 1942, also shows the indication “19 x 152 = 2,888”. The number 19 corresponds to the number of spacings between one opening and the next (20 openings = 19 spacings). The sequence of the spacings, starting from the wall towards the crematorium, is as follows: 0.36 + 28.88 + 0.76 = 30 meters, where 0.36 m and 0.76 m are the wall sections before the first opening and after the last opening. The openings on the right side were placed in such a manner that each opening was placed exactly between the two openings on the opposite wall, as Document 13, section 1, segment A-B shows. The same system was also adopted for the intake openings, which were also designed in alternate locations (section 2, segment G-H).
Robert Jan van Pelt was one of the first writers to mention the importance of Auschwitz in SS plans for the colonization of the Eastern occupied territories. In van Pelt’s book written in collaboration with Deborah Dwork, he stated that
In his drawings, D. Olère, far from representing reality, has simply illustrated the propagandistic themes created by the Auschwitz resistance movement which circulated in the camp[274], including the most absurd legends, such as the flaming chimneys, which I discussed above, or that of the blue coloration of hydrocyanic acid!
[20] International Military Tribunal, Trial of the Major War Criminals before the International Military Tribunal, 42 Vols. Nuremberg: 1947-1949. (The “blue series”) / IMT, Vol. 19, p. 434.
According to another self-proclaimed member of the "Sonderkommando", Henryk Tauber, on the ground floor of Crematorium II and the area designated "Waschraum und Aufbahrungsraum" (washroom and layout-out room), towards which the freight elevator travelled, came to be used in March-April 1943 as a "morgue"[62].
‘The administration of Auschwitz Concentration Camp has requested an improvement in food for pregnant Gypsy women and Gypsy infants and newborn children, with reference to the fact that the Reichsführer-SS wants it this way, because, with regard to the Gypsies, he has rather particular intentions. The requests are such that the rations correspond to those of German citizens. I now ask you to verify what the wishes of the Reichsführer-SS [actually] are. We cannot give inmates’ food to the Gypsies, but, supplied with supplements, we can assimilate them with the eastern workers and even give them supplements, even if pregnant eastern workers don’t receive them, and we can even give them our rations for future mothers. Should we assist the children in accordance with the rations for Germans or, even here, follow a middle path in the manner of the regulations for the eastern workers? I request that you inform me of the wish of the Reichsführer-SS so that I may draw up a definitive directive’.
Dr. William Calvin wrote in 2008 that climate scientists say we need to stop the growth in worldwide carbon emissions before 2020, even for a compromise goal that will flood major coastal cities and make a third of all species extinct. Calvin wrote: “Time has become so short that we must turn around the annual emissions growth before 2020 to avoid saddling today’s students with the world of refugees and genocides that results if we’re too slow.”[29] Despite our lack of political action, the horrific consequences predicted by Calvin for the year 2020 have not occurred.
We return to the problem of why it had taken so long to discover these murders which took place everywhere in the Ukraine? The answer: A combination of “The shock of the discovery of concentration camps” plus “the local executions terrorized and silenced survivors in the eastern regions,” plus “After World War II, many witnesses were left behind the Iron Curtain, and no one was interested in their memories.” That the news of mass killings on such a scale at thousands of sites should take a half-century to reach Western ears is stretching our credulity a bit far, even allowing for the terrible shock imparted by discovery of the concentration camps. Particularly as Dr. Pohl assures us that “news about killing in local fields spread much more quickly than the murky rumors” about gassing at concentration camps, and Father Desbois confirms that the killing “was ultra-public in a village.” Furthermore, the Soviet authorities had every interest to load murders onto the Nazis—as in the case of Katyn—when the news reached their ears. Hence we are surprised that no one was interested in their memories.
Cole’s telling is breezy, surefooted, and entertaining throughout; he gives the impression of a natural raconteur, punctuating his episodic memoir with revealing anecdotes, ironic observations, and self-effacing humor, all while providing the kind of sympathetic yet critical discussion of Holocaust revisionism that, coming from a reputable imprint with wide distribution, is rare if not unprecedented.
At Dachau, imagery of a gas chamber disguised as a shower room was driven into our minds.
And in this contest, a certain kind of swearer seemed, ineluctably, to gain sway over the proceedings. This was the swearer who affirmed the legend, dating all the way back to clandestine broadcasts of 1942 from Polish resistance fighters, that the Germans had invented, designed, built, and successfully deployed, an entirely new technology for mass murder, the gas chamber—and this employing the crudest and most unlikely of vehicles, that of either the cyanide-based insecticide Zyklon-B, or of carbon monoxide produced, variously, by gasoline engines or even cylinders clearly marked CO2 (carbon dioxide, a totally non-toxic gas).
Construction on the Bełżec camp began in October 1941 according to the witness Kozak,[57] and the future camp site of Sobibór was visited on three occasions during the autumn of 1941 according to the witness Piwonski,[58] but it is likely that preliminary planning on the resettlement program later described as part of Aktion Reinhardt was commenced several months earlier, perhaps as early as July or August 1941. On July 15, 1941 work on the preliminary study for “Generalplan Ost” was concluded.[59] On July 17, 1941 Governor General Hans Frank noted in his official journal that Hitler on June 19, 1941 (i.e. three days before Operation Barbarossa, the launch of the war with the Soviet Union) had declared that “the Jews will soon be removed from the General Government with the latter becoming, as it were, a mere transit camp.”[60] On the very same day Himmler named Odilo Globocnik, later a key administrative figure in the resettlement operation, as the “Commissioner for the Establishment of SS and Police Strongpoints in the New Eastern Area.”[61] On August 28, 1941, Eichmann wrote of an order prohibiting “an emigration of Jews from the territories occupied by us in view of the impending final solution of the Jewish question in Europe now being prepared” (emphasis added).[62]
On October 24, 1945, the Field Security Section 92 organized a raid at the sugar factory of St Michaelisdonn, during which they interviewed all employees as well as Höss’s wife. She made detailed statements about her husband, but did not reveal his hiding place. Meanwhile, the British had arrested Karl Sommer, who had been deputy chief of Office D II of the WVHA.4 Sommer reported that all members of Office Group D had assumed pseudonyms, and that Höss was now Driver Lang.[5] The former commander of Auschwitz called himself Franz Lang.
Diese Daten sind ein Durchschnitt von Zahlen, die auf den Webseiten von zwei der renommiertesten Holocaust-Forschungseinrichtungen gefunden wurden, das US Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. und das Yad Vashem Museum in Jerusalem.[1]
Buchanan’s “attacks on the credibility of survivors’ testimony are standard elements of Holocaust denial.” (p. 7)
In fact, even the despised commandant of Auschwitz, Rudolf Höss, supported Kramer's claims in his autobiography, where he wrote:
To facilitate the reading of these lines I refrain from mentioning numerous sources, references and details which the reader may find mainly by turning to two texts on my blog: “The Victories of Revisionism”[1] (December 11, 2006) and “The Victories of Revisionism (continued)”[2] (September 11, 2011). For the same reason I also leave out any mention of a rather large number of articles from Le Monde and other publications, either French or foreign, on the “Faurisson affair” or “the affair of the gas chambers.” Supposing, finally, that a reader particularly keen to save time wants to get to the heart of the matter as quickly as possible, I advise a reading, all in all, of four Le Monde articles: firstly, the one that appeared in the edition of December 29, 1978,[3] complemented by that of January 16, 1979 (“A letter from Mr Faurisson”)[4], and, secondly, Jean Planchais’s “dossier” of February 21, 1979 on “the Nazi camps and the gas chambers”, which contains both Georges Wellers’s article entitled “‘Un roman inspiré’”[5] (An Inspired Novel) and a long text bearing the title “La politique hitlérienne d’extermination : une déclaration d’historiens” (The Hitlerite Extermination Policy: A Declaration by Historians).[6]
Nearly a year earlier, on October 12, 2006, France passed the “Armenian Genocide Law” - an act that was strongly denounced by the Turkish government. This legislation now makes it a crime in France to deny that the Ottoman Turks massacred an estimated 1.2 million Armenian Christians during the years 1915-1917.
18 June. The weekly Deutschen Wochenzeitung reports that Munich bishop and former Dachau inmate Dr. Johannes Neuhäusler during a press conference held in connection with the beginning of the construction of a chapel at the former camp site stated that no gas chamber had ever been put into use at Dachau, and that therefore the claim that 75,000 inmates had been gassed there was false. The bishop mentioned the official victim estimate presented by the Town of Dachau, according to which 20,000 inmates had perished in the camp, as well as the International Tracing Service's estimate of 29,000 victims, and further stated his intention to write a pamphlet entitled "Die Wahrheit über Dachau" (The truth about Dachau) to be disseminated at an upcoming ecclesiastical world congress in Munich.
Since the summer of 1934, Austria had been governed by a conservative dictatorship headed by Dr. Kurt von Schuschnigg. Schuschnigg persecuted Austrians who favored unification with Germany. Political dissidents landed in concentration camps, and the regime denied persons of “deficient civic reliability” the right to practice their occupation.[30]
[25] Donat, Alexander (editor), The Death Camp Treblinka: A Documentary, New York: Holocaust Library, 1979, p. 170.
“Auschwitz! The whole world knows that name: the place where Fascists exterminated 4 million people from all over Europe in four years.” (p. 167)
From this vantage, Cole focuses on the question of intent, discerning clues in the sequence of contemporaneous communications and pronouncements, many culled from Joseph Goebbels’s writings, to support his conjecture that for a time – specifically from “1942 through 1943” – Jews were dispatched to genuine extermination camps, specifically “Treblinka, Sobibor, Belzec, and Chelmno,” otherwise known as the Aktion Reinhardt system, where they were lined up and shot, or, in classic Holocaust style, queued up and fed to gas chambers (albeit of the truck-rigged must-have-been-carbon-monoxide-not-diesel-exhaust variety, not the pellet-inducted Zyklon B variety) and then burned (in pits, not crematoria).
The “history,” so to call it, of the Holocaust must be discounted out of hand, not because much of it is the product of Jewish survivors bent on vengeance, nor of Soviet and other Allied governments eager to justify their savage depredations of one of the largest civilized nations in the world, nor of Zionists vigorously mining the tragic tales for every excuse they can find for their own country’s mimicry of Hitler’s institutionalized racism, but because it has always been a crime to voice any accounts or understandings that oppose any of this.
The maximum documented quantity of Zyklon B delivered to Auschwitz therefore did not even reach 2,540 kg, barely a quarter of Setkiewicz’s estimate ranging from 10,120 to 10,424 kg!
A search of the eventual suspect's home will have to yield evidence of the several typewriters used, and ribbons of the correct vintage, and perhaps a stock of wartime paper, too.[6]
Diese schrecklichen Bilder der katastrophalen letzten Tage eines kollabierenden Deutschlands, von allen Seiten umzingelt und in Schutt und Asche bombardiert, werden als Beweis für vorsätzliche Vernichtungslager vorgebracht. Dieser schmutzige Trick ist der Hauptgrund dafür, dass die Leute an den Holocaust glauben.
There are other stories in these remains. One is the search for residue of the deadly cyanide gas. If the chambers were used on as many people as claimed, the remaining bricks should have detectable cyanide compounds still in them. And yet none are to be found. Another story is the search for the roof openings into which the Zyklon pellets were poured—supposedly four per chamber. Krema 2’s roof is sufficiently intact that we should be able to find evidence of these holes. And yet they are not to be found—not one single indisputable hole.
He and the chairman for a few moments discussed implications of Holocaust denial and its relationship to the bill. Leibler likened such “denial” to saying “that the moon does not exist or the sun or the earth is square.”[73] He then renewed his attack on me: “But Mr. Chairman, we have been treated here to something which I have never heard but I have seen on TV. This is The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. This gentleman is talking about a worldwide Jewish conspiracy controlling all governments, controlling the world. I would like to know how this is done. He should be asked to explain.”
At about the same time, the US government created Oak Ridge in the mountains of Tennessee, strategically located near hydroelectric power stations fortuitously erected by the government there in the 1930s. Energy—electrical energy, in fact—was as crucial to Oak Ridge as thermal energy was to Auschwitz, since the only product of this huge installation, not known until World War II was over, was enriched uranium to provide the stupendous force used to devastate Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan, and to threaten the world in all the time since with the limitless destructive power thereafter at the disposal of the US government.
German political and economic subordination to Israel and the Jewish power elite continues to this very day. In a speech to the Israeli Knesset on March 18, 2008, the current German Chancellor Angela Merkel spoke of “Germany’s Holocaust shame” and pledged its continuing support for the Jewish state in the Middle East.[51] This is precisely the psychological reaction that the Holocaust mythology is meant to induce in the German people, because it “wins” mass support for the current German rulers and their relationship with Israel and Zionism.
All throughout his public existence “the Pope of the Holocaust religion” has made up for the bankruptcy of the official historians. We have not a single proof, not a single document to prove the “Holocaust” but we indeed have the performances of the clown Elie Wiesel and his acolytes. Where a historical subject of great gravity called for sober historians, we have had only histrions; Elie Wiesel is the first among these: a clown, a histrion crowned with a Nobel Prize.
It was agreed at Potsdam that these expulsions should take place “in a humane and orderly manner,” but this provision has been flouted. At a moment’s notice, women and children are herded into trains, with only one suitcase each, and they are usually robbed on the way of its contents. The journey to Berlin takes many days, during which no food is provided. Many are dead when they reach Berlin; children who die on the way are thrown out of the window. A member of the Friends’ Ambulance Unit describes the Berlin station at which these trains arrive as “Belsen over again—carts taking the dead from the platform, etc.” A large proportion of those ejected from their homes are not put into trains, but are left to make their way westward on foot. Exact statistics of the numbers thus expelled are not available, since only the Russians could provide them. Ernest Bevin’s estimate is 9,000,000. According to a British office now in Berlin, populations are dying, and Berlin hospitals “make the sights of the concentration camps appear normal.”[11]
According to a certain number of witnesses, people were regularly taken to the “area of the crematorium“ to be shot there (especially after February 1945). Even if the ”neck-shooting facility“ was a creation of propaganda, it would have been possible to carry out executions in the ”shooting ditch“. On the other hand, this ditch was very close to the nearest barracks (less than 100 meters as the crow flies). Although the prisoners in the camp would not have been able to see what was going on in the ditch (after all, the dwelling barracks and the ditch were separated by the camp wall), they would certainly have heard the shots, and the shooting would have stuck in their minds. In general, inmate testimonies about groups of people being led to the ”area of the crematorium“ in order to be killed there, are unsubstantiated claims – vague and unconvincing. They are insufficient to prove that the alleged mass murder by shooting really occurred.
On 25 May 1944, Dr. Wirths sent a letter to Auschwitz camp commandant, in which he stated:
“One man who tried to stop the Holocaust.” “The first witness to the Holocaust.” Superlatives have never been lacking in descriptions of the Polish courier Jan Karski. His celebrity has extended to academia, where much ink has been spilled over such questions as whether Karski was on a mission to save the Jews (he was not) or whether he played an important role in informing the Allies about the alleged extermination of the Jews (he did not). Yet the actual contents of Karski’s witness account have generally been relegated to the background, to be “dealt with” briefly and then forgotten once more. On the traditional view, Karski’s story is as follows: Jewish leaders, having learned of Karski’s impending mission to London, asked him to carry a message for the Jews as well as for the Poles. They smuggled him into the Warsaw ghetto and into the Belzec “death camp” so that he could act on their behalf as a direct eyewitness. He then “became one of the first eyewitnesses to present to the West the whole truth about the fate of the Jews in occupied Poland.”[1]
It is not known when the shooting of Soviet POWs (Russenaktion) at Sachsenhausen began; the earliest date mentioned is late August 1941. Our knowledge is exclusively based on the statements of former prisoners (Büge, Sakowski etc.) which often contradict each other and were probably made under duress. In mid-November 1941 the Russenaktion was allegedly stopped, presumably for two reasons: The revocation of Heydrich’s Einsatzbefehle (15 November 1941) and the recent outbreak of typhus. Incidentally several German prisoners employed at the crematorium were among the first victims of the dread disease. During the Russenaktion they had sat on a heap of clothes belonging to shot Soviet soldiers and been infected by lice. Subsequently the camp was subject to a quarantine that lasted several weeks.
Glazar made two major errors in his book. First, Glazar wrote that the Germans started to burn the corpses “one overcast November afternoon” in 1942.[13] This statement contradicts the standard Holocaust literature, which claims the incineration of corpses did not start until March/April 1943.[14]
"Hitler's orders for complete extermination required even more effective methods. German science was brought into the picture. In Chelm the gas chamber was introduced; in Belzec electrocution; in Treblinka B, death by hot steam. By July 1942, the Germans boasted an impressive record. In addition to the 400,000 dead of 'natural causes,' they had now murdered outright some 300,000 Jews."
Bradley was always coming up with new ideas.  There were new advertisements, new books, new designs for the website, new websites.  Most of the ideas never settled before new ones sprang up.  But still, work got done.  More work was accomplished to establish intellectual freedom on the Holocaust story than most ever even imagine.
Another role of the Gestapo was the investigation of sabotage and subversion among foreign workers. German Communists were active among them. McDonough states that “all the Gestapo cases we’ve looked at involving alleged communists were investigated thoroughly and exhaustively. Numerous witnesses were brought in for questioning. Each case was treated with professional diligence and efficiency.”76 The seriousness of each case was based on its individual character, and the most-severe were placed in “protective custody.” The picture that emerges, even during war, was that people were not routinely herded en masse and sent to concentration camps on flimsy pretexts. If someone was held in custody he or she could expect to be released within a few days if an efficient investigation found them innocent or the matter trivial.
14 June 1959. A letter written by Stephen F. Pinter is published in Our Sunday Visitor, p. 15 under the heading "German Atrocities". In it, Pinter writes that "there were no gas chambers in any of the concentration camps in Germany", and that while he and other judicial officials had been told about "a gas chamber at Auschwitz", the Soviets had not allowed them to investigate that claim. Pinter also disputes the six-million figure, suggesting that the actual number of Jewish victims was less than one million.
An interesting divergence from the usual claims of about 2,000 to 3,000 people. Cohen gives more realistic figures, putting 750 people in a chamber of 30 x 15 m. Obviously he’s done the math.
It is in this sociopolitical context that we must decipher German motives. Since the governing class’s position of power and influence is “justified” and “legitimized” by the Holocaust ideology, it makes sense that they would aggressively indoctrinate the German masses with it. All German politicians must accept and promote the Holocaust mythology, for in the present German political culture they cannot do otherwise.
As was noted initially, Yehuda Bauer of Yad Vashem has spoken of the difficulty of documenting the really central events of the Holocaust. By that, he must mean that no one has yet succeeded in presenting solid evidence for the gassings at Auschwitz or anywhere else, for if that is not what he means by “documenting the central events,” what is? Robert J. van Pelt may have written his book with the aim of surmounting Bauer’s difficulty, but far from having achieved this ambitious task, he has only opened up more cracks in the evidence and brought about new contradictions in its interpretation –The Case for Auschwitz is a book that need not have been written — and certainly should not be read, at least not if taken at face value.
4. Finally, Rudolf has taken wall samples from the outside of delousing chambers, as well as from deeper layers of the material:
In the meantime, the thorny question of the alleged Turkish genocide against Armenians has again been raised. Raffi K. Hovannisian, first Armenian Minister of Foreign Affairs, has raised the matter in an article published by Foreign Policy Journal. He writes that, ‘On February 28, the Constitutional Council of the French Republic struck down a bill, previously enacted by its legislature, that would have made it a crime to deny the Armenian Genocide’.[41] While supporters of freedom of historical enquiry will, frankly, be supportive of the decision by the Constitutional Council for having refrained from a further curtailing of freedom of opinion, the double-standards cannot go unnoticed in regard to France’s draconian laws prohibiting any questioning of Holocaust dogma. It seems clear that the Armenian attempt to get such a law passed would have been inspired by France’s criminalization of ‘Holocaust revisionism’. Certainly, what Hovannisian writes can only be described as the worst form of Lipstadtian ‘Holocaust relativisation’:
What Black ignores in his book is that the official Holocaust story is fraudulent. Numerous reports, articles, books, videos and testimony from Fred Leuchter, Walter Lüftl, Germar Rudolf, Friedrich Paul Berg, Dr. William B. Lindsay, Dr. Arthur Butz, Carlo Mattogno, John C. Ball, Richard Krege and David Cole have proven that there were no homicidal gas chambers at any of the German camps during World War II.[27] The large number of Jewish survivors of Auschwitz-Birkenau and other German camps makes impossible a program of genocide against European Jewry.[28] The eyewitness accounts of the Holocaust story have also proven to be extremely unreliable and ineffective in proving its validity.[29] Finally, the Aktion Reinhardt camps have been shown to be transit camps rather than extermination camps.[30]
Many of the German guards who surrendered the camp had only recently been transferred to the camp in the final days of the war. Some were just teenagers from surrounding towns. Ironically, this young German guard even looks like the young DiCaprio. This young German was not a deliberate holocauster of Jews or anyone else but a young man tragically swept into the final days of the most brutal war in the history of mankind. The German soldiers surrendered, and with their hands up, the Americans shot dozens of captured unarmed German guards. And it didn’t happen in the heat of the moment either, as this movie suggests. In fact, the Americans actually brought the guards to the camp’s coal yard, got a heavy machine gun from their vehicle and brought it into position, and they had their army photographers take pictures of the event, as this photo and others prove. It was a war crime. The Americans played judge, jury and executioner. They even dragged German soldiers from a nearby hospital and shot them, even though they had nothing to do with the camp at all, let alone the death trains. Here is the testimony of one of the Americans involved in this murder:[48]
“In early 1941, a crematorium, designated as Crematorium #1, was started up in the Auschwitz camp. […] Next to this crematorium there was a gas chamber, which had, at either end, gas-tight doors with peep-holes and in the ceiling four openings with hermetic closures through which the ‘Ziklon’ [sic] for the killing of the persons was thrown. Crematorium I operated until March 1943 and existed in that form for two years.”
After his capture it is possible that Eichmann was coerced or bribed to give false testimony that supports traditional Holocaust claims. After all, Israel has a vested interest in promoting the Holocaust ideology, as the state is founded upon it.[17] Another distinct possibility is that he gave false testimony in order to escape a death sentence, a strategy that we will explore more fully in a moment.
“Although many years have passed since the war ended, the researchers [of the Auschwitz Museum] have failed to find any major body of documents in the archives on the basis of which the entire extermination process at the Auschwitz Concentration Camp can be described accurately. In view of the many gaps in the archival materials that are crucial to our understanding of this issue, we are left with hundreds and thousands of witness reports, first of all by former inmates, or the testimonies by members of the SS, who were either in marginal or in permanent contact with the crematoria and the gas chambers. These reports, however, although most are credible and complement each other, contain – by their very nature – a number of inaccuracies and errors (especially with regard to the chronology), so in the end they cannot be considered as absolutely sufficient historiographical sources.”
After the end of the war, at least two former prisoners seemed very well informed about the Russenaktion: Emil Büge, who had worked at the Prisoner Records Office where he had to register the admittees, and Paul Sakowski, who had been one of the crematorium workers. Both men left very detailed written reports about what had transpired at the camp, and Sakowski entered the witness stand at the Berlin Sachsenhausen trial. Both of them mentioned the usual figure of 14,000 or more shot Russian POWs. It stands to reason that they had no choice, each of them subject to the mercies of one of the victorious powers. According to his own statements, Büge had worked “for the Americans”, which most probably means the Augsburg-based U.S. War Crimes Commission. Lonely, impoverished and no longer needed by the Americans, Emil Büge committed suicide in 1950.
Libeled, slandered, deprived of his livelihood, his marriage in shambles, the man who was recognized as the foremost American expert on the design and functioning of gas chambers and execution hardware used in the United States; the man confirmed by the warden of the Missouri State Penitentiary, who testified under oath that he had consulted with Leuchter in the design, maintenance and operation of the Missouri gas chamber; the man who “ to the best of his knowledge, was the only such consultant in the United States… …now works as a bus driver.
[19] Neuhäusler, Johannes, What Was It Like in the Concentration Camp at Dachau?, Dachau: Trustees for the Monument of Atonement in the Concentration Camp at Dachau, 1973, pp. 3, 25-26.
I lived a few weeks in Auschwitz.[…] Based on the information which I gathered, together with my own observations, I can assure you that the Germans used the following killing methods. A) Gas chambers: the victims were forced naked into the chambers, where they suffocated. B) Electrical chambers: these chambers had metal walls. The victims were driven inside and then killed by high-voltage electrical current. C) The so-called pneumatic hammer system: a pneumatic hammer designed to kill by means of pneumatic pressure.
Why is it that we all recognize this one name, but have no idea about all the others? And with all, I am not just referring to any of us. This all also includes Auschwitz survivors. If we read or listen to the many testimonies of the thousands of Auschwitz survivors, there seems to have been only one evil person in that entire huge camp: Josef Mengele. Almost every survivor mentions him as an evil SS doctor sending people either to the gas chambers or subjecting them to some cruel, senseless, torturous experiments. Just as Auschwitz has become the symbol for the Holocaust in general, so does Mengele symbolize the evil of Auschwitz. They are synonymous.
The book continues with a consideration of court records from both the war and post-war period. Finally the author addresses witness testimonies before reaching his conclusion. Essentially echoing an argument made by Friedrich Berg many years prior, Alvarez argues that the Germans were too sophisticated to use such a crude makeshift solution for murdering people en masse as the gas vans. He goes on to discuss so-called producer-gas vehicles that were equipped with wood gas generators as a much “better” alternative than what is asserted to have been used. It is interesting to consider whether such vehicles may have been created by the decidedly less sophisticated Soviets for the torture and murder of their political enemies. While there is some evidence that this may be the case, it remains inconclusive whether the Soviets retroactively charged their own crimes, like the murder of Polish officers at Katyn, to their German enemies.
“View of THE door to THE gas chamber at Dachau next to a large pile of uniforms.”[31]
Mengele is special, so special, indeed, that this is the only uncommon German last name my English spell checker doesn’t complain about. Like blitzkrieg and Auschwitz, this term has become a fixed part of the English language. What a proud legacy of a reviled concentration-camp physician!
This is an important book on an important subject. That it silently demonstrates, in favor of the Holocaust scripture and its devotees, the very evil that it bemoans ultimately strengthens its impact enormously, at least for readers who are sufficiently attuned to the detection of such insidious silences.
But as Hoffman tells us: if you find yourself in good favor with German immigrants and anti-Communists, you’re certain to make some pretty powerful (and predictable) enemies. The Holocaust “survivor,” Sabina Citron, was among the boldest of these enemies. In a twist of irony that never seems to grow old, Ms. Citron incited much hatred upon herself and other Holocaust survivors by demanding that Zündel be prosecuted for incitement to racial hatred. Thus to save Citron from another Holocaust—this time wrought not by Europe’s largest and most technologically advanced state, but by hard-hatted Zündel and his tiny network of artists and auto-workers—Canada imprisoned and tried Zündel for publishing “false news,” whatever that is.
The case of the seven British sailors was a very tragic one. These members of the Royal Navy had been captured during a commando raid (a practice the Germans regarded as a violation of the rules of warfare) and sent to Sachsenhausen. For unknown reasons, all but one of them were executed by shooting shortly before the end of the war. In its first drafts the ESC devoted much space to the sad fate of these young Britons, but from version Shn-4D the pertinent passage was drastically shortened, and in the final version the subject is dealt with in one single sentence.
As a matter of fact, Cesarani is even more explicit. He writes that it was the course of the war rather than any preconceived plan that triggered the descent into a Europe-wide genocide (p. xxxvi). But then an obvious question arises: Would there still have been a genocide if the Germans were victorious? Cesarani ignored such a question. So let’s move on with what he has to say about the Holocaust.
“Ah, Auschwitz. Yes, here’s where we still have a problem. […] there are genuine problems with what is commonly claimed to be part 3 [of the Holocaust]—that in 1943 Auschwitz-Birkenau was ‘renovated’ to become an ultra-super be-all end-all extermination facility. To me, the evidence just isn’t there, and the evidence that does exist calls that claim into question. […Orthodox historians] backed themselves into a corner by putting Auschwitz, with its phony, postwar tourist-attraction ‘gas chamber’ and its complete lack of documentary evidence supporting a killing program, front and center as the heart of the Holocaust. They’re in so deep at this point that they can’t back off.
a) The President of the Tribunal did not, at least at this point, dispute the defense contention that the Vichy government was the legally recognized government of France; that non-uniformed resistance is illegal, and that guerrillas are not entitled to protection as prisoners of war;
John Demjanjuk, a naturalized American citizen, was accused by eyewitnesses of being a murderous guard at Treblinka nicknamed Ivan the Terrible. Demjanjuk was deported to Israel, and an Israeli court tried and convicted him primarily based on the eyewitness testimony of five Jewish survivors of Treblinka. Demjanjuk’s defense attorney eventually uncovered new evidence proving that the Soviet KGB had framed Demjanjuk using forged documents inaccurately portraying him as a guard at Treblinka. The Israeli Supreme Court ruled that the eyewitness accounts were not credible and that Demjanjuk thus was not guilty.[1]
"[Jewish historian and Warsaw ghetto chronicler Emmanuel] Ringelblum also writes on 1 Jan. 1943: 'Lies in an article in [the SS organ] Das Schwarze Korps about how the transfer of Polish Jewry failed—it seems that Jews are not suitable human material for resettlement, so 120,000 children, women and old people died. So that was the end of the deportation. The forced removal was imposed only on the non-productive elements of the Jewish population.' (Kvosim, II, p. 75)."[20]
The use of false witnesses has also been acknowledged by Johann Neuhäusler, who was an ecclesiastical resistance fighter interned in two German concentration camps from 1941 to 1945. Neuhäusler stated that in some of the American-run trials “many of the witnesses, perhaps 90%, were paid professional witnesses with criminal records ranging from robbery to homosexuality.”[44] The frequent use of such false witnesses calls into question the legitimacy of the Dachau trials.
As for the Jews deported from Eastern Galicia to Auschwitz: their number must have been very small, since Yitzhak Arad in the chapter of The Holocaust in the Soviet Union which he devotes to the fate of the Galician Jews in 1943 does not mention the names Auschwitz or Birkenau even once.[82] Neither is it mentioned as a destination in Eliyahu Yones’s monograph on the Holocaust in the Lwów oblast.[83] Aleksander Kruglov writes that about 10,000 Jews “mainly from the Lviv [Lwów, Lemberg] Oblast, were deported to Poland” in 1943,[84] without stating their exact destination. Jews still remaining in labor camps in Drohobych and nearby Borislaw in March-April 1944 – some 1,500 in all – were deported to the Płaszów labor camp near Krakow, not to Auschwitz.[85] The latter is erroneously claimed in the transport list of Franciszek Piper, who besides this transport only lists three minor transfers of Galician Jews to Auschwitz in the summer of 1944, with the numbers of deportees for these transports given as 2, 7 and 35 respectively![86] Considering these extremely low minimum estimates, the unlikelihood (given the demographic data available) that the real numbers were much higher, as well as the timeframe, there is no reason to dwell further upon the very hypothetical issue of transports from Eastern Galicia to Auschwitz.
The conclusion just mentioned is corroborated by the so-called Kas(z)tner Report, which van Pelt knows about but speaks of only indirectly by quoting the French revisionist writer Rassinier; he has the latter state that Kas(z)tner, a leading Jewish figure in Hungary at the time of the “Hungarian action,” claimed that the gas chambers at Auschwitz were out of action for 8 or 9 months between the fall of 1943 and May, 1944. Even though Rassinier’s quotation on the Kas(z)tner Report appears twice in van Pelt’s book, the author does not discuss it, nor does he include Kas(z)tner’s name in his index. Van Pelt does not dispute Kas(z)tner’s statement.
"Remember the Holocaust" will be the battle cry of the next great clash of good (Judeo/Christian values) and evil (radical Islamic aggression) and those who question it must be demonized if not burned at the stake.
1. The archives of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum contain numerous documents signed by Dr. Mengele, but no document attests to Dr. Mengele’s presumed crimes. No document shows that Mengele killed even one child, or that a child was ever killed on his order.
The revelation of this procedure of sanitizing interrogation transcripts has significant implications, and raises the question of how far this practice extended to other similar cases of the time. Certainly one must suspect similar alterations to Tesch’s interrogations, neither of which exists in a true original (meaning the copy actually taken down during the interrogation). However, there is also a strong possibility that similar acts took place in other British and American interrogations. In one similar case, there was testimony in the Congressional investigation of the Malmedy trial that the investigators engaged in extensive rewriting of interrogation-derived statements.[43] Interrogation materials are often not available in the original typed version, as seen in Figures 1 and 2 (with characteristic lack of formatting), but only in better-formatted, retyped versions. In light of the modifications demonstrated here, scholars cannot deny the very real possibility that they are dealing with doctored materials - “the interrogation as it should have been”. Though this is not the time to treat the subject thoroughly, one must remark that when using interrogation and trial materials, holocaust scholars have not shown adequate sensitivity towards the type of evidence with which they were dealing. It is no surprise that reading the prosecution’s file makes the accused look guilty: the prosecution was aiming for that effect, and often was not being particularly honest in the process. On the theme of caution with interrogation-derived statements, one should also note the penchant of prosecutors to use their own statements in the deposition of a witness. In simplified and somewhat caricatured form, the process looks like this: one begins with an interrogation as follows:
Thus, with regard to Dresden’s death toll, Evans does not have a legitimate basis for saying “all of Irving’s attempts to justify a high figure rested on fantasy, invention, speculation, the suppression of reliable evidence, the use of unreliable sources, or, most shockingly, the repeated deployment of a document that he knew to be a forgery.”[41] Evans unfairly accuses David Irving of intentionally overstating the death-toll figure in the Dresden bombings. If anything, I think Irving underestimates the death toll from these bombings, aside from whatever intentions Sir Richard Evans in his all-seeing wisdom might impute to Irving.
Aarons has asserted in an opinion article in The Australian that ‘the case against Zentai… indicates that he took part in the systematic persecution of Jews….. The Australian’s investigation of Zentai in 2005 uncovered evidence that he had been involved in systematically rounding up and torturing Jews. The evidence included the testimony of witness Jakob Mermelstein.’[59]
Subsequently, it became evident from available documentation and material evidence that no order had been given for the mass murder of Jews. No trace has been found of any plan, budget, or weapon, nor has a single autopsied body been shown to have been gassed.
Needless to say, the sensibly worded appeal fell upon deaf ears, for the milieu in which “Holocaust denial” laws were first devised was precisely in those areas alluded to by the Italian professors - the political arena and the world press. Thus, “Holocaust-denial” laws were purposely designed to curtail freedom of speech and subvert other fundamental human rights. Practically speaking, human rights in Europe were no longer ‘at risk’ – they were in fact in headlong flight under attack by tyrants posing as moderate liberals.
The U. S. Army probe uncovered detailed evidence that a band of three hundred German Communist prisoners had seized control of a self-government system set up by the Nazis among the inmates of Buchenwald, and had then employed it to command and terrorize the camp population. The Communists’ victims were numbered in the thousands… It appeared that prisoners who agreed with the Communists ate; those who didn’t starved to death. Those who openly opposed the Communists were beaten, tortured or killed. It was stated categorically by the Army report that: “The Communist trustees were directly responsible for a large part of the brutalities committed at Buchenwald .... Not all the beatings and killings were done by the SS guards.” A list of German Communist trustees who committed such acts was compiled by the Army. At the head of it was a man named Hauptmann, who was the Assistant Camp Chief (Kontrolleur). Of him, the report asserted: 59
”Based on eyewitness testimony and documents it was ascertained that during various periods some groups of captured English soldiers and officers were interned and annihilated at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp.“
Implicit in this encounter is the judge’s presumption that his career depends upon his accepting the good-versus-evil victor’s narrative laid down at Nuremberg, so that anyone who tries to re-tell the German history must therefore be a wicked Nazi. The revisionist in the dock has to affirm that he or she is the historian, is the only historian present in the Court, and is therefore competent to advise the Court about “an act committed under the rule of National Socialism” in relation to genocide, as this Volksverhetzung law specifies.[8] An act not subsumed under said rule cannot be of relevance to the Court, can it?
Prüfung des Holocaust: Das Entsetzen erklärt (Teil 1) präsentiert überraschende Informationen, die ein neues Licht auf das entsetzliche Bildmaterial werfen und es vielen Zuschauern zum ersten Mal ermöglichen, wirklich zu verstehen, was sich am Ende des Krieges in Deutschland zutrug. Eine unvoreingenommene Betrachtung dieser Präsentation wird Sie überraschen und ermuntern, selber Fragen zu stellen.
Judge Gray asserted that there was a "convergence" of evidence "which is to the ordinary, dispassionate mind overwhelming that hundreds of thousands of Jews were systematically gassed to death at Auschwitz." But in the very next breath he issued a qualification that ought to be posted at the entrance of every Holocaust museum in the world: ". . . the contemporaneous documents, such as drawings, plans, correspondence with contractors and the like, yield little clear evidence of the existence of gas chambers designed to kill humans. Such isolated references to the use of gas as are to be found amongst these documents can be explained by the need to fumigate clothes so as to reduce the incidence of diseases such as typhus." It's a wonder Lipstadt didn't accuse the judge of being a Holocaust Denier.
HB-2 laconically states:[44] “In 1942 the first prisoner was hanged by Lagerführer Suhren...”. In this context the crematorium worker Paul Sakowski, who together with some of his colleagues had to carry out executions by hanging, is mentioned for the first time: “The political prisoner Sakowski officiated as hangman.”[45] HB-7c provides some additional information: “The first person hanged by order of Lagerführer Suhren was a BV[46] who had attempted to escape on the first day of Whitsuntide. The political prisoner SAKOWSKI officiated as hangman.”[47]
[25] For example, Neuhäusler, Johannes, What Was It Like in the Concentration Camp at Dachau?, Dachau: Trustees for the Monument of Atonement in the Concentration Camp at Dachau, 1973, pp. 15, 29.
However, in over sixty years, the Jewish or non-Jewish accusing historians have shown themselves to be incapable of offering a response to these requests. Thus they have been accusing without any evidence. That is what is called slander.
When Issam took his father on a last visit to see Jerusalem, I was privileged to go with them. That trip opened many new contacts for Deir Yassin Remembered and paved the way for subsequent trips to the IDF archives for information on Deir Yassin that had not yet been disclosed. Although by then rather old and frail, Issam's father, Mufid, was an activist at heart; he and his extensive collection of books meant that we now had a veritable reference librarian on board. A year before his death in 1999 Mufid Nashashibi insisted on being a part of the DYR vigil in front of the Museum of Tolerance in Los Angeles. Mufid held the placard to remember Deir Yassin, while Issam held him up. A Palestinian father and son, together in front of the Holocaust museum with a sign calling for people to remember Deir Yassin, would be the very definition of the Arabic word sumud, which in English might be called ‘steadfastness and resilience.’
“The doorposts [of the door separating the alleged gas chamber from the former laying-out/dissecting room] are made of wood, and the door itself is made of wood and glass. The handle and lock are so weak that they keep falling apart. The door opens inwards, into the ‘gas chamber.’ When we asked Mr. T. Szymanski, the (now retired) curator, how it was that the gassees did not just smash the window in this door and escape, he advised us that he had never investigated this door so he could not give us a definite answer!”
While these matters were earnestly debated among various legal experts, Jewish Community leader Jeremy Jones, secretary of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry and Sydney director of Australia/Israel Publications, argued to outlaw “Holocaust” denial in Australia.
The major trick of the Holocaust promotion industry is to show these horrible images of emaciated bodies and make you believe that prisoners were always like this. That the Germans immediately starved them to death, and this deliberate starvation had been going on for years as part of their plan of extermination. However, witnesses such as this and others prove that at times the concentration camps were not so terrible.
This presumed intention is in conflict with the conditions of internment of the Gypsies at Birkenau. In this regard, Franciszek Piper declared:
While, from the time of Justice Bromberg’s decision on, there has been enormous and most detailed discussion in Australian public forums (in connection with the free speech issue) of Andrew Bolt’s journalism, the judge’s finding and associated Aboriginal issues, a quite different phenomenon can be noted in the way in which a different associated topic has been handled. I refer to what has usually been referred to as “Holocaust denial”, although I believe that “Holocaust revisionism” is a better, though not completely satisfactory, term.
The enlightened Swiss minister enunciated his profound belief that freedom of expression is more important than protecting the sensibilities of hostile minority groups, and that Swiss law should serve as a beacon to other nations. The minister said, “I do not want that an opinion cannot be uttered only because someone will be offended by it,” and added that the definition of genocide is a question which must be decided by historians.[4]
Unfortunately, those among the reading public who are not well versed in this great murder-mystery will not detect these fallacies. They, quite literally, do not know what they are missing. And because fundamentalists have a complete monopoly over mainstream media and academia, their deceptions largely go unpunished. Only the rare and intrepid investigator will press into the Holocaust mystery deeply enough to approach the truth—or escape the deceptions. But when it happens, he will be well-rewarded.
“[p. 1] In November 1939, I was deployed as leader of a protective custody camp in the rank of an SS captain. Until my transfer to AUSCHWITZ on the first of May 1940.
The writers are here apparently confusing the "death camp" Chełmno with the city of Chelm. We note here that gas chambers, not "gas vans" are ascribed to this killing site.
Judge Matia rightly pointed out that Demjanjuk’s successful defense against the ‘Ivan the Terrible’ charges shows the unreliability of eyewitness testimony so long after the event. Now it is time for Judge Matia to admit the “eyewitness testimony” that the Sobibor “gas chamber” story is built upon is as equally unreliable as the “eyewitness testimony” that the original “Ivan the Terrible” charges were built upon.
But we can also find evidence that the gassing of Jews at Treblinka is another myth.
Mendel “Manny” Steinberg was born in 1925 in Radom, Poland. In 1942 his ghetto was liquidated and he spent the rest of the war years in various camps including Auschwitz, Vaihingen and Neckagerach. After liberation he moved to America in 1946 along with his father and brother.
The “gas chambers” reference seemed to be based on two references in the Polish aide-mémoire’s appendix, both supposedly drawn from telegrams sent from Poland on 17th July 1943.
On 3rd July 1993 in the previously mentioned article by Herb Greer quoted by News Weekly from the UK Daily Telegraph, we read: ‘One witness was seen to contradict his own written statement made decades before when memories were fresh and more dependable, yet the contradiction was ignored and the testimony taken as true, because the witness was a Holocaust survivor. His transparently vengeful malice and the consequent possibility of reasonable doubt was also ignored. Even after the lucky discovery of post-glasnost documents from KGB files made it clear that Demjanjuk’s plea of mistaken identity was valid, the self-contradicting Israeli witness still stuck to his story… This raised the question of whether some survivors of the Holocaust have been corrupted by their own suffering and their longing for justice perverted into a desire for vengeance at any cost.’
On another day of the trial, Rampton holds aloft two different editions of Irving’s classic history, Hitler’s War, and points out that the 1977 first edition upholds the genocide of Judaics, while the reissued and revised 1991 edition does not. True, but the movie omits what made the difference. Between 1977 and 1991 the two Zündel trials took place with the demolition of “survivor” testimony in the first, and the Leuchter Report issued at the second, which impressed Irving so much that he revised his Hitler book to reflect the Leuchter revelations which Zündel had made possible.
Let’s now turn to some false claims Dr. Lipstadt makes about Holocaust revisionists and what they claim. Actually, let us rename this section the Straw-Man Fallacy, because that’s what we are dealing with here. And here is how it works. First, you ignore the real arguments, or even the persons making the real, hard-hitting arguments. Then you either create a made-up, pretend argument, or you refute the weak arguments of some person who is only a marginal figure in the area of contention. Then you defeat that made-up or weak argument, and finally you declare victory over the entire area of contention. This table, broken into two parts, lists in the left column the people whom Dr. Lipstadt deals with in her book, and in the right column the people who have contributed major scholarly works to Holocaust revisionism as of 1992.
Meantime, the world today enjoys an abundance of well-funded (and well-connected) organizations such as the Simon Wiesenthal Center that have dedicated themselves, in many cases in as many words, to "never again" a genocide such as they allege befell the Jews (and only the Jews) at the hands of the Nazis in the 1940s. Have we heard from any of these outfits? I am unable to fetch up reports of any such "speaking up" for the Romas, despite the fact that one of the perpetrators of atrocities against them is their old bugbear, Germany. Abe Foxman, where are you when members of some other tribe might have need of your critical pronouncements? Are you too preoccupied with zoning disputes in lower Manhattan these days to see a new Holocaust looming on the horizon? What about Elie Wiesel? He says he's from Romania, and France is where he finally hit the big time. Has he now lapsed back into the silence he's written and said so much about?
Lt. Col. William Denson, the chief prosecuting attorney, used the legal concept of common design for establishing that camp personnel at Dachau were guilty of violating the laws and usages of war. The Dachau tribunal accepted Denson’s legal concept of common design. In common design, Denson had discovered a legal concept wide enough to apply to everyone who had worked in Dachau.[52] In essence, the Dachau defendants were all assumed to be guilty unless proven innocent.
The following table summarizes the data supplied by Gudrun Schwarz in his report entitled Sinti und Roma in den Nationalsozialistischen Konzentrationslagern. Ein allgemeiner Überblick (Sinti and Roma in the National Socialist concentration camps. General overview:)[93]
The laws of nature apply both to Nazis and anti-fascists. Nobody can be killed with diesel exhaust gas in the manner described [in the Holocaust literature].[21]
Another example of false Jewish testimony of the Holocaust story occurred in the case of Frank Walus, who was a retired Chicago factory worker charged with killing Jews in his native Poland during the war. An accusation by Simon Wiesenthal that Walus had worked for the Gestapo prompted the U.S. government’s legal action. Eleven Jews testified under oath during the trial that Walus had murdered Jews during the war. After a costly four-year legal battle, Walus was finally able to prove that he had spent the war years as a teenager working on German farms. An American Bar Association article published in 1981 concluded regarding Walus’s trial that “…in an atmosphere of hatred and loathing verging on hysteria, the government persecuted an innocent man.”[30]
On July 28 Franz Josef signed the declaration of war against Serbia. Sazonov refused even to listen to the Austrian ambassador’s evidence of Serbian complicity. He had denied from the start “Austria’s right to take action of any kind” (emphasis in Clark). The Tsar expressed his view that the impending war provided a good chance of partitioning Austria, and that if Germany chose to intervene, Russia would “execute the French military plans” to defeat Germany as well.
“[Judge] Thomas held that Leuchter could give oral evidence but that the report itself was not going to be filed. (32-9032) He held Leuchter was not a chemist or a toxicologist. (32-9034) He further held that Leuchter was an engineer because he had made himself an engineer in a very limited area. (32-9048)
Germany’s Federal Court of Justice intervened and ordered a regional court in Karlsruhe to review the case and impose a new sentence, which it did in December 1994. Deckert was thereafter sentenced to two years’ imprisonment for “denying the Holocaust.”
My own writings are not ignored in this big book, since my name appears 33 times (and not only 12, as the index may lead one to believe). “Mr. Faurisson, you haunt my nights!” exclaimed in 1981, in a Paris courtroom, Bernard Jouanneau, lawyer and friend of Robert Badinter. Another time, in 1982, the same Jouanneau was to burst into sobs upon suddenly realising that the evidence of the existence of Nazi gas chambers he had just offered to the first chamber of the Paris court of appeal (presiding judge: François Grégoire) “was not worth very much” (his own words, in a moment of touching sincerity). I think I have also revealed to Raul Hilberg (an American Jew) and to Robert Jan van Pelt (a Canadian Jew, his successor as historian of “the Holocaust”) how they have failed, each at his end, in their offers of proof. It is especially R. J. van Pelt who in the book in question takes charge of giving me a reply. His lines of penance (pp. 343-354), which are pathetic, are essentially based on the writings of Jean-Claude Pressac, but van Pelt avoids disclosing that their author disowned them on June 15, 1995 (a month after his appearance in the XVIIth chamber of the Paris correctional court, where barrister Eric Delcroix, aided by my information, had subjected him to outright humiliation). Pressac went so far as to admit that the present version, “though triumphant”, of the official history of the extermination of the Jews was “rotten” with too many lies and doomed to “the waste bin of history” (quoted in my analysis of May 5, 2000 entitled “Valérie Igounet: ‘Histoire du négationnisme en France’”). But has not van Pelt himself admitted – in December 2009 – that the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, where millions of pilgrims have gone on organised visits, contains, so to speak, no “physical evidence” of what we “know” (sic) about “the Holocaust” (“A case for letting nature take back Auschwitz”, Toronto Star, December 27, 2009)? Among historians, the myth of the Nazi gas chambers is on its last legs. Instead of trying to keep it alive artificially with the persistent clamour, spectacles, advertising, repression, threats, blackmail, it would be better simply to bury it, as the State of Israel finally decided to do with the body-corpse of Ariel Sharon.
The Holocaust narrative allows Yad Vashem, the finest Holocaust museum in the world, to repeat the mantra of "Never Forget" while it sits on Arab lands stolen from Ein Karem and overlooking the unmarked graves of Palestinians massacred by Jewish terrorists at Deir Yassin. It allows Elie Wiesel to boast of having worked for these same terrorists (as a journalist, not a fighter) while refusing to acknowledge, let alone apologize for, the war crimes his employer committed. It makes Jews the ultimate victim no matter how they dispossess or dehumanize or ethnically cleanse indigenous Palestinian people.
If this had been true, Dr. Mengele would have proceeded to liquidate all the witnesses of his alleged criminal activity – his collaborators who also worked with twins – before leaving Auschwitz on 17 January 1945. He had enough time! But he allowed all the “eyewitnesses” of his alleged crimes to survive, i.e.:
This bizarre practice of calling shower rooms gas chambers continues to this day. We can see on the website of Israel’s Holocaust Museum “Yad Vashem” a photograph of the actual inmate shower room at the Dachau Camp captioned
One may ask why the British submitted this text to Höss, which is in contradiction to his alleged statement made two days earlier regarding both the date of Himmler’s order (May instead of June 1941) and the number of victims (the gassing victims were reduced from 2,500,000 to 2,000,000). Apparently, the author(s) of these lines did not even know that Höss had returned to Auschwitz in May 1944 – according to the orthodox holocaust narrative in order to assist in the “gassing” of the Hungarian Jews, which is the most significant event, numerically speaking.
40. A transport of Hungarian women arriving at Auschwitz, May/June 1944.
William H. Chamberlain wrote, “I have been privately informed by an extremely reliable source that Potocki, now residing in South America, confirmed the accuracy of the documents, so far as he was concerned.”[7] Historian Harry Elmer Barnes also stated, “Both Professor Tansill and myself have independently established the thorough authenticity of these documents.”[8]
Given his past investment in the subject, it’s a safe bet that many readers will be interested in David Cole’s present take on Holocaust history and revisionism. Although he expresses understandable reluctance about holding court on the subject anew, the truth is that Cole is never more in his element than when he writes about history. He’s attentive to detail and he presents his theses logically in clear language that stands in welcome contrast to the palaver-laden cant of certain professional obscurantists. He would be a good teacher.
Long before the enactment of the present laws in Germany that criminalize any “denial” of the Holocaust, there were still social and political pressures that induced German officials on trial for alleged war crimes to “confess” to the “truth” of the extermination of the Jews.
In 2010 a German court summoned Bishop Williamson to face charges that he had denied the Holocaust, an offense punishable by up to five years in jail. He declined to come to Germany; in fact his church instructed him not to. In July, 2011 the over-seventy bishop was instructed to pay 6,500 euros by a German court. That verdict was overturned in March 2012.
This article documents some of the numerous Jewish groups and individuals who have conspired to promote the official Holocaust story.
Sobibor was designed in a very similar way, except, for some unknown reason, the three chambers were each 16 square meters. By a similar calculation, the camp could kill as many as 5,760 per day.
What with the case for the existence of the Nazi “gas chambers” becoming ever more difficult to uphold, the official historians and the media have set about focusing on the Einsatzgruppen. Not shrinking from any manner of cheating, they have in some instances begun dressing up those “Intervention Groups” with the label, invented by themselves, “Mobile killing squads.”
A Jewish man in a video on Facebook claims he was sent to Auschwitz at age 10 and survived. The man says that Dr. Mengele would make selections to determine who went to the gas chambers. He claims he told Dr. Mengele that he was 17 years old, and his life was saved because Dr. Mengele miraculously let him live. The man also claims in this video that 1.5 million children were killed in the gas chambers at Auschwitz. If this man survived at age 10, however, certainly many other Jewish children survived as well.[16]
A thorough analysis of the existing documents has shown that from 1936 to 1945 about 22,000 male prisoners died at Sachsenhausen plus its satellite camps and outstations. The number does not include the Soviet prisoners who were shot or perished in the camp, the female detainees in the satellite camps and the casualties of the evacuation march. Much additional research is necessary here.
On 26th October 1991 News Weekly published a review by Michael Fitzgerald of a book entitled Ivan the Terrible and sub-titled The Trial of John Demjanjuk by Tom Teicholz, published by the prestigious firm of Penguin. The book was a Jewish writer’s attempt to whitewash the findings of the first Israeli trial. Fitzgerald reported and commented on Teicholz’s tale: ‘The most telling piece of documentary evidence was the so-called Trawniki card. This was “uncovered” by the relevant KGB department following a request for information on an “Ivan Demjanjuk at Trawniki”. It was made available to the prosecution through the good offices of Armand Hammer, a confidant to the Soviet leadership since the time of Stalin.’ [On 14th August 1993 News Weekly described Hammer as ‘the disgraced industrialist’.]  Fitzgerald noted that the defence had ‘disputed the card’s details relating to Demjanjuk’s hair colour, complexion and facial shape’ and that the judges in their judgement had stated that it was ‘not the technical details [of the documentary evidence] which will seal the fate of the accused.’
“We have noted that the gassing chambers are to be arranged also for AREGINAL gassing. Your garrison surgeon has not yet approached us in this matter, but on the 9th of this month we received instructions from the Surgeon General SS and Police, the Top Hygienist, to include the additional AREGINAL devices. No modifications of the gassing chambers are necessary; only the AREGINAL gassing unit has to be installed. You will receive an appropriate installation drawing when the AREGINAL units have been supplied by the manufacturer. For the sake of completeness, we inform you here that the price of the AREGINAL unit amounts to RM 27.-, and the steel requirements are 12 kilograms.”
Journalist Nick Cater did give a kind of consideration to the problem of Holocaust revisionism within the controversy.[120] He referred to revelations by former ALP cabinet minister Bob Carr of the degree of power exercised over the Gillard government by Jewish lobby groups and sub-titled his article: “Bob Carr’s claim of a fateful faction has fired up the Fuhrer-fawning fringe.” It was soon evident that he was referring to Töben, whom he termed an “ignominious pretender”, and the Adelaide Institute. There followed the usual sort of invective: “Töben’s notoriety has ensured years of publicity. He has become a martyr within a minority of the community who regard him as a serious historian. The attempt to shut him down has reinforced their belief in an internationally sanctioned conspiracy….. Töben is an altogether more ugly beast….. Holocaust denial undoubtedly is offensive, insulting and humiliating.” However, he argued that it “in itself does not fall into the narrow category of things that can justifiably be suppressed.” Cater even teetered on the brink of opening up serious discussion about what really happened in wartime Nazi Germany, referring to “the blueprints for the factories of mass slaughter built at Auschwitz in 1943” and “architects Walter Dejaco and Fritz Erl.” Robert Faurisson, no doubt, has argued that any such blueprints referred to facilities to deal with vermin, but that is another matter. Cater also referred to Primo Levi who, he claims, “had the measure of these close-minded con men” (Töben and others). It is doubtful that Cater has read Faurisson’s detailed studies of how Levi’s testimony changed over the years in a most suspicious manner.
In 1994 revisionist historian Udo Walendy published a low-quality reproduction of this picture (the only one at his disposal) in his analysis of “forged photographs.” Walendy pointed out that virtually nothing was known about the origin of the photograph and that there is no technical description or expert report about the alleged gas vans. It may have been a coincidence, but only a year later (1995) Jerzy Halbersztadt, a historian from Warsaw University who then worked at the US Holocaust Museum in Washington, threw light on the origin of this picture. The impetus for his research was not provided by Walendy’s publication (as Walendy is a revisionist, Halbersztadt predictably chose to ignore him) but by Leon Zamosz, a Holocaust historian of Polish-Jewish descent and a founding member of the USHMM, who had been “trying to find a photograph or any other graphic illustration of the gas vans used at Chelmno and other places” and had sent a circular letter to various Holocaust experts ( “multiple recipients of list HOLOCAUS”)[11]. A few weeks later, in October 1995, Halbersztadt communicated the results of his research to the addressees of the “List HOLOCAUS”[12] .
”It has turned out, that the exhumed corpses burn considerably better than those fresh from the gas chambers.” (p. 117)
In this building there are some 10 gas chambers. At a short distance from the main structure there is a smaller one with three gas chambers. By the doors stand several Germans who shove people inside. Their hands do not rest for a moment as they scream fiendishly—Faster, faster, keep moving![4]
“The demonization of Nazism and its mythologizing, in general, were also necessary since the Holocaust served as the main justification for the creation and existence of the State of Israel.”
The important question at this time is this. Does Christian morality really demand an acceptance of the traditional version of the Holocaust?
Although van Pelt does not discuss camps other than Auschwitz, the same general considerations of crowd management apply mutatis mutandis to the other extermination camps as well. At Treblinka, Sobibór or Belzec, the crowd of naked victims, perhaps 1000 or 2000 strong, is said to have stood waiting in a fenced-in open passage some 100 m long and perhaps 3 m wide, leading to the narrow side of a building almost a meter off the ground. The victims then had to climb 3 steps (each of them, it appears, half a meter high), go through a first door to enter a corridor about five feet wide with several normal-size doors on either side. These doors led into the gas chambers which in themselves measured about 4 by 8 meters and could thus accommodate somewhere between 100 and 300 people, depending on whose description the reader chooses to follow.
The IMT and later Allied-run war-crimes trials were a travesty of justice organized by Jews who sought to demonize and punish Germans. These Allied-run trials were politically motivated proceedings that falsely accused Germans of conducting a policy of genocide against European Jewry.
There are 51 interviews in the book (26 women, 25 men). Except for two, the rest have been in Auschwitz–Birkenau. Now, here is the interesting part: 39 out of these 51 never mention gas chambers. Not once. On the other hand, almost all of them know about the crematories (45 out of 51). This is quite unexpected. But let’s ignore this for now and see what the survivors have to say.
Mark Hobbs, PhD, MA, is a lecturer in the Humanities at the University of East Anglia. Dr Hobbs specialised in genocide and ‘ethnic cleansing’ in the Balkans during the late 1980s and 1990s.
“Thousands, many thousands arrive daily at the ‘ramp’ of Birkenau. From many cars they do not disembark at once, they wait endless hours inside for their turn. A ‘road’ was created leading from the ramp directly to the gas chambers, without passing with the trucks through the camp. The crematories are working non-stop and cannot keep up. They opened large pits; they throw wood, corpses, and set fires. They burn them there, because the crematories are not enough.”
We have a fairly accurate description of the disinfection of residential premises and the offices in the ‘staff building’ (Stabsgebäude) carried out at the end of January 1942. As results from the content of the instructions issued by Commander Höss, extraordinary prudence was maintained during its implementation: On the morning of January 22, the cracks in the windows had already been sealed with strips of paper (to seal them), and the inhabitants of the building had been transferred to other blocks for the night. The SS were ordered to leave any dirty clothes in their rooms. After taking a bath, they would get some clean underwear. They were forbidden to bring along ‘clothes, luggage, bags of documents etc.,’ in order to avoid the danger of reintroducing the epidemic. The actual ‘gassing’ (Vergasung) of the buildings lasted three days, until Tuesday January 27. Detailed instructions for disinfecting the prisoners’ barracks (at Birkenau) have also been preserved in two other orders by the camp commander issued in 1943: one took place on July 24 and 25 the Camp Sector Bla (Women's Camp), the other on July 31 and August 1 in Sector BIId (Men’s Camp).”
“And right then and there the tribunal actually ordered the imprisonment of a witness, Professor Yegorov, […]”
This picture is of frankly of bad quality; the section shown is much too confined and as evidence for a crime an irrelevance. The above scene becomes somewhat clearer when taking a look at the following photomontage composed of four pictures which was published by Saul Friedländer in 1967 (Fig. 5).[19]
Sington and a heavily armed band of British regulars stormed into the SS administrative offices, barking orders to the surprised SS men. One of them, a rather seedy looking man with puppy-dog eyes and a nervous disposition, began to cry when informed that he and his assistants were under arrest. His name was Hauptsturmfuehrer Franz Hoessler, who had formerly served under Kramer at Birkenau. Hoessler was ordered to accompany Sington, who demanded that he be shown the kitchen facilities. As they proceeded together along the corridor, Hoessler continued to weep profusely, reiterating over and over again, "I have a wife and two little children." Sington was unmoved, and merely asked him, "Why did you join the SS?" Hoessler replied that in 1933 he was unemployed. "What was your trade?" queried Sington. "I was a photographer," Hoessler replied.
2 old farm houses, located secludedly in the BIRKENAU area, were made free of gaps and equipped with strong wooden doors. The transports as such were unloaded on a side spur in BIRKENAU. Inmates fit for work were selected and taken to the camps, all luggage was put down a. later brought to the property warehouses. The others destined for gassings went on foot to the facilities some 1 km away. The sick and those unable to walk were transported there by truck. During transports arriving at night, all were carried there by truck. In front of the farmhouses, all had to undress behind erected brushwood screens. The doors had a sign saying DESINFECTION ROOM. By means of interpreters, the sergeants in charge had to tell the people that they ought to pay close attention to their things, so that they would find them after the delousing. This prevented any agitation right from the start. Those undressed then went into the rooms, 2 – 300 people, depending on the size. The doors were screwed shut, and through small hatches, one to 2 cans of Cyclon B each were spread out[.] This was a granular mass of hydrogen cyanide. Duration of exposure depending on weather 3 – 10 minutes. After half an hour, the doors were opened and the corpses were dragged out by a unit working there constantly and burned in pits in the ground. Prior to the incineration, gold teeth and rings were removed, fire wood was stacked up between the corpses, and when a pile had some 100 corpses in it, the wood was lit using rags soaked with petroleum. Once the incineration was well under way, other corpses were thrown to this. The fat collecting at the bottom of the pit was poured back into the fire with buckets in order to accelerate the incineration process particularly during wet weather. The duration of the incineration lasted 6-7 hours. During westerly winds, the stench of the burned corpses could be noticed even inside the camp. After cleaning out the pits, the remaining ashes were crushed. This happened on a cement slab where inmates pulverized the remaining bones with wooden pounders. These remains were then poured into the Vistula at a remote location using trucks.
Erik Kirschbaum, reporting for Reuters on 25th February 2009, reported that Germany’s chief Nazi war crimes investigator in Ludwigsburg, Kurt Schrimm, had claimed that his office had evidence that Demjanjuk had been a Sobibor guard and personally led Jews to the gas chambers there in 1943.’ Schrimm is also reported as having claimed: “It’s now possible to give the precise names and birth dates of the victims.’ Fran Yeoman in Berlin for the London Times reported on 15th April 2009 that Demjanjuk’s oldest victim was 99 and the youngest were babies in what had been described as being ‘as close an approximation of Hell as has ever been created on this planet.’
There effectively were never more than 38 cremation muffles concurrently operating at Auschwitz/Birkenau. Their theoretical maximum daily capacity on a 20-hour-per-day operational schedule amounts to:
We should chew on that for a while. Despite the mania for talking about it, this "Holocaust" still lacks commensurate dramatic representation. I believe that all such attempts will either be ludicrous on their faces, or give us something like the Spielberg movie, which represents genocide somewhat the way a performance of Tristan and Isolde, abruptly ending with Act II, might represent a love story.
Contemporary documents also confirm that conversions of Zyklon B gas chambers were underway in the summer of 1944. A letter from Auschwitz Zentralbauleitung chief Werner Jothann to Tesch & Stabenow remarks:
On the preceding page, Kranz admits that “the Zyklon supplied to Majdanek was used, as in other concentration camps, for the disinfection of barracks and clothing” (p. 222). In fact, the copious documentation on the supply of Zyklon-B allows us to state beyond any doubt that the product was used for disinfestations and nothing else[12]. So what is Kranz trying to prove in the paragraph quoted above?
The destruction from the Dresden bombings was so massive that exact figures of deaths will never be obtainable. However, the statement from the Dresden Commission of Historians that “definitely no more than 25,000” died in the Dresden bombings is probably inaccurate. An objective analysis of the evidence indicates that almost certainly far more than 25,000 people died from the bombings of Dresden. Based on a comparison to the Pforzheim bombing and the other similar bombing attacks, a death toll in Dresden of 250,000 people is easily possible.
This confusion appears to have resulted in part from the prosecution’s use of the term Gaskammer to designate all kinds of gassing spaces, even the kind that gassing professionals would call generally a Gasraum, and in part from the prosecutors’ failure to consistently distinguish between equipment that TESTA themselves supplied and equipment that they had merely heard of. Thus in his interrogation, Drosihn says that he has never heard of large Gaskammern one minute, and immediately afterwards discusses an immense gassing facility in Riga.[131] This is clearly not an attempt to deceive, but rather proof that he did not classify the Riga facility as a Gaskammer. The fact that the term Gaskammer was assumed to have a somewhat restricted usage is also supported by the interrogation of Gustav Kock, who distinguished an improvised Gasraum from a Gaskammer.[132] Thus, the prosecution’s belief that Tesch was lying in his statements concerning large gas chambers is simply the result of their failure to understand the usage of the relevant specialized vocabulary.
Tauber also estimated that 4 million people were gassed at Auschwitz/Birkenau: “During my time in Auschwitz, I was able to talk to various prisoners who had worked in the Krematorien and the Bunkers before my arrival. They told me that I was not among the first to do this work, and that before I came another 2 million people had already been gassed in Bunkers 1 and 2 and Krematorium I. Adding up, the total number of people gassed in Auschwitz amounted to about 4 million.”[10] Today no credited historian estimates that 4 million people were gassed at Auschwitz/Birkenau. Tauber was merely repeating the Soviet propaganda extant at the time.
Of the 540,000 Jews living in the area of the Altreich, 320 000 had emigrated by the beginning of the war, plus another 65,000 during the war. Of the 280,000 Jews in Austria, 220,000 emigrated. Of the 340,000 Jews of the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia 260 000 Jews emigrated, only a small part of these illegally. As a rule, emigration was legal and conducted in the way that those affected wished. In the early years, they were allowed to take out the monetary value of their possessions and movable goods. It was only after the deterioration of the foreign-exchange situation of the Reich that restrictions were imposed on the transfer of assets, but not on the assets themselves. The fact that, in the case of sales, especially of the immovable property of firms, etc., considerable tax evasion often occurred, which led to fines, is an exception to these rules. There is no doubt that many emigrants suffered losses, because they could not in the circumstances obtain full market selling prices. But who indeed has not found, after being accused of a crime, that one had to flee across the border by night and fog with 30 or 50 kilograms of luggage? It does not speak against the legal intentions of the German government that until 1938 it paid the Jews released from public service their full salaries even abroad. After the (1938) murder of E. vom Rath, the normal pensions were paid - until the end of the war. The fact that the Jews who stayed behind were subjected to many insults and reductions should not go unmentioned. But that is still a far cry from extermination. By the way, the Jews abroad made up for this with a grossly disproportionate campaign of hate propaganda. It should also be noted that until well into the war no Jew was ever sent to a concentration camp because he was a Jew.
Limb by limb, Rollins proceeds to hack apart respected works of nascent Holocaust revisionism: Udo Walendy’s The Methods of Re-Education, Austin J. App’s The Six Million Swindle, the works of Paul Rassinier, Richard Harwood’s Did Six Million Really Die?, and selections from the Journal of Historical Review. Misquotes, mistaken identities, outright fabrications—these texts are alleged to be full with them. And, as subsequent analysis has borne out, Rollins was mostly right. Yet one wonders why, in this 1983 piece, Rollins does not attempt to revise Butz’s The Hoax of the Twentieth Century. By this time, Rollins had obviously learned which school kids could be easily kicked around. But his revisionist readers keep waiting for the concessionary nod, the overt recognition that, despite some flaws in some revisionist texts, revisionist research had by the 1980s reached a maturity and depth not fairly represented by those few choice cuts. Unfortunately, he leaves us wanting.
If the Holocaust never happened, what happened to the Jews of Europe? If the camps were labor or transit camps, where did the Jews go? Give us the name of one single Jew who was transited through these camps.
Never mind that by design no flames could emanate from the crematorium chimneys at Auschwitz.[1] Clive Teddern, a German Jewish soldier, after arriving with his unit at Hamburg on May 8, 1945, started looking for his parents:
Mengele was not just innocent of the crimes he is accused of. Together with Eduard Wirths and the other physicians at Auschwitz, his tireless efforts saved the lives of ten thousands of inmates.
“Then they began to build gigantic crematoria. They were set up so that the victims could not understand where they were taken. Each crematorium had two gas chambers, one for 1,500 and one for 2,000 people. There was a special concrete ski-jump [skocznie, meaning chute] on which the people were thrown from the truck, [whose loadbed] tipped automatically, and in this way the people were falling into the gas chambers.”
Q. You would agree, would you not, that seven thousand kilograms of Zyklon B gas is unlikely to have been used for the purposes of delousing chambers?
This latter point is reflected in the book's contents, which are weighted heavily to the 'pre-extermination' years. The first four (of five) parts of the book cover 1933-1941 in substantial detail; his analysis of the Einsatzgruppen shootings is of particular interest. But the 'meat' of the Holocaust, which begins only in 1942, is covered in just the final Part V—only slightly more than 100 pages. And so we are misled by his title; it's not so much the "Holocaust", but rather like the "Prelude to the Holocaust". Apparently Longerich felt that the 'Holocaust proper' had already achieved sufficient coverage—in those other 27,999 books of recent years.
[8] Abzug, Robert H., Inside the Vicious Heart: Americans and the Liberation of Nazi Concentration Camps, New York and Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1985, pp. 27, 30.
Outdoor livestock carcass cremation seen from the air. pit, excavated soil, massive destruction of vegetation and top-soil around the pits – nothing of that kind can be seen on any of the air photos of Auschwitz.
Holocaust Handbooks, the world’s leading book series critically exploring what the powers that be don’t want examined. Mesmerizing comprehensive presentations, such as Lectures on the Holocaust, as well as cutting-edge research results, such as The Real Case for Auschwitz. Read most of our books free of charge at HolocaustHandbooks.com, where you can also watch our riveting documentaries. All this high-quality content was made possible by viewers like you. Please consider making a donation to help us create more of this content. We cannot do it without you!
In his first book about Auschwitz, Pressac wanted to respond to the argument of a revisionist. The title of the “Attachment”, which summarized the objection, is: “GAS 3000 PEOPLE IN LEICHENKELLER I OF KREMATORIUM II? IMPOSSIBLE, THE BODIES WOULD HAVE BLOCKED THE LOWER AIR EXTRACTION ORIFICES”.
Former US Secret Service forensics expert Larry Stewart may have committed perjury in giving evidence about the ID card for the prosecution, according to Andrea Jarach of Associated Press in 2010.
Holocaust liar Joseph Hirt. (The Guardian)
At his trial, and in a pretrial interrogation, Bruno Tesch testified that in 1944 he had converted the gas chambers at Sachsenhausen from the Zyklon B system to the use of Areginal gas. During the third day of his trial, on 4th March 1946, he gave two pieces of testimony on this subject, although the matter was largely unrelated to the court’s interest. In the first piece of testimony, he explained the work he had done at Sachsenhausen:
So, after an earnest five-minute run, I could at last see the ruins of the infamous Krema 2—site of the single greatest death toll at Auschwitz: some 300,000 people, on the conventional view (Photo 14). Across the way, its twin facility, Krema 3—site of another 275,000 gassings (Photo 15). Both buildings were destroyed by the Germans upon abandoning the camp, though Krema 2 retains some very relevant and important structures.
To cut a long story short: There are no fewer than six drafts, which we will call “Shn-1”, “Shn-2”, “Shn-3”, “Shn-4”, “Shn-5” and “Shn-6” (Shn = Sachsenhausen). Of the four “complete” drafts, we have translated but two; as to the others, a comparison of the texts was sufficient to recognize differences and deviations and to reconstruct the chronological order of the documents. Two examples will suffice to illustrate this point. In drafts Shn-1, Shn-2 and Shn-3 the Cyrillic transcription of Sachsenhausen is correct (“Саксенхаусен” ), while in Shn-4A to Shn-4C the name of the camp is misspelled as “Саксенгаусен”, the German “h” being erroneously rendered as “r” instead of “x”. The person who styled Shn-4D then realized this error and corrected it manually. In Shn-4 and Shn-6 the wrong letter “г” does not occur any more; it has been replaced by the correct “х”. Another detail which greatly helped us to establish the chronology of the documents is the enumeration of the nations whose subjects had been interned at Sachsenhausen. As the order in which these nations were enumerated reflected the esteem the respective countries enjoyed in Moscow at the time the reports were written, it was constantly changed – which enabled us to draw certain conclusions as to their chronology.
[8] Rudolf, Germar, “Some Technical and Chemical Considerations about the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz and Birkenau,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, pp. 363-371.
Auf diesem Bildschirm sind Aufnahmen der US-Armee aus Nordhausen, Dachau und Buchenwald zu sehen. Der Untertitel lautet:
So vast a crime would have presupposed an order, a project, a plan, overall guidelines, detailed instructions, funding, a monitoring of operations and expenditures, numerous assessments whether particular or general, research into and successful development of such weapons as mankind had not yet known, along with the involvement of a great many soldiers, scientists, engineers, builders and other employees. Such an undertaking, especially if it had been carried out in the utmost secrecy, would have required a set of draconian measures. All of this would have left much irrefutable evidence, both material and documentary. At first, the official historians had the nerve to state that such evidence did indeed exist, and “in abundance.” When challenged to supply “one proof, one single proof” of their own choice, they pulled back and, following Pressac’s example, thenceforth invoked only the existence of “criminal traces” or “beginnings of proof.” Retreating still further, they invented the claim that the great slaughter had occurred without any order or directive but spontaneously (like “spontaneous generation,” in a way). The most prestigious among them, Raul Hilberg, going back on his former affirmation that there had been two orders from the Führer to kill the Jews, proceeded to assert that in fact everything had happened without an order, without a plan, all thanks to “an incredible meeting of minds” (sic) within the vast German bureaucracy and to “a consensus-mind reading” (sic) among Nazi bureaucrats!
So, we must ask: Why was the partly Jewish Bullitt—a mere diplomat—“urging” the president of the United States to face down Hitler? And why were Bullitt and Roosevelt “constantly needling” England and France to fight a war that they themselves did not see as necessary or winnable? And why did these nations succumb to American pressure? And why did Chamberlain ultimately link together America and “the world Jews” as the driving force for war? We need not look very hard to see a Jewish hand at work.
There is no commandment in the Bible that says: "You shall believe in the Holocaust ideology." However, there are statements in the New Testament that command the Christian to search for truth. So it is written in Mark 10: 19: “You know the commandments: …You shall not bear false witness.” In John 3: 21, we read: “But he who does what is true comes to the light, that it may be clearly seen that his deeds have been wrought in God.” In John 8: 31-32, it is stated: "If you continue in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free." In 1 John 2: 21, this theme of finding truth is again stated: "I write to you, not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and know that no lie is of the truth." Finally, to illustrate the point, let us quote Exodus 20: 16: "You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor." These statements clearly imply that followers of the Bible’s teachings will search for truth and reject lies.
A Russian asked Benjamin Ferencz why the Americans didn’t just kill the German war criminals. Ferencz replied: “…we don’t do that. We’ll give them a fair trial.”[27] Robert Kempner stated that the Nuremberg and other trials resulted in “the greatest history seminar ever held.”[28] In reality, Germans did not receive fair trials after World War II, and the “trials” they did receive have played a major role in establishing the fraudulent Holocaust story.
While initially the German authorities deported only such individuals to Auschwitz they deemed capable of working, this policy gradually changed in July 1942, first by expanding the age range upward, then by increasingly including individuals unfit for labor (primarily children), as Aynat has shown in his 1994 study. The mainstream narrative has it that these individuals were primarily those who were not registered on their arrival at the Auschwitz camp but were killed in gas chambers.
The United States was the only country in the world with the industrial and technical resources necessary to build an atomic bomb during World War II. There is no credible evidence that any other nation produced plutonium or U-235 in sufficient quantities during the war to build an atomic bomb. While it is possible that some other nations might have built a type of radioactive “dirty bomb”, for technical reasons these could not have involved either fission or fusion nuclear reactions.[28]
Fred A. Leuchter was qualified as an expert in the design, construction, maintenance and operation of execution gas chambers. He was allowed to give opinion evidence on the operation of gas chambers and the suitability of the facilities he inspected in Poland to operate as gas chambers. (32-9062, 9063)”
Their historians used to claim that Hitler had conducted a policy of extermination against the Jews, involving, particularly, the use of weapons of mass destruction called homicidal gas chambers or gas vans. They would also assure us that, on the Eastern front, the Einsatzgruppen had engaged in gigantic slaughters of Jews. In the end, if one was to believe them, nearly all the Jews of Europe had thus been exterminated.
Fig. 1: Seeing off the French doctors Dr. Leboucher (left) and Dr. Coudert (right), Sachsenhausen, 23 June 1945. Second from right is Johann Hers (with shag pipe) and third from right is Frederik Bischoff (with tie).
The death of John Demjanjuk (‘Nazi camp guard dead’, 19 Mar) brings to a close one of the most repulsive and inhumane persecutions of a human being in European history. Yoram Sheftel, Demjanjuk’s Jewish lawyer,  provided in his 1995 book Show Trial a thorough exposure of the massive corruption involved in the staging of the first Israeli trial of Demjanjuk, whose verdict had to be overturned in the appeal trial because  of irrefutable evidence found after the collapse of the Berlin Wall.
Rudolf also took samples from the alleged homicidal gas chambers and the delousing facilities at Auschwitz and Birkenau. Similar to Leuchter’s samples, the alleged homicidal gas chambers exhibit only insignificant traces of ferrocyanide residue on the same order of magnitude found in any other building. The samples from the delousing chambers, however, all showed very high ferrocyanide residues. Rudolf determined that if mass execution gassings with hydrocyanic acid had taken place in the alleged homicidal gas chambers, the rooms in the alleged homicidal gas chambers would exhibit similar ferrocyanide residue as the delousing chambers. Therefore, Rudolf concluded that mass gassings with Zyklon B could not have occurred in the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz and Birkenau.[8]
Zyklon B was going in vast quantities to the largest concentration camps in Germany east of the Elbe, and in those same concentration camps the SS Totenkopfverbunden were systematically exterminating human beings from 1942 to 1945 in an estimated total of six million human beings, of which four and a half million human beings were exterminated by the use of Zyklon B in one camp alone known as Auschwitz/Birkenau.[48]
There is only one "Israel Cohen" in the transport lists (in Convoy 33), but he is stated to be born in Philipopoli, Bulgaria, in 1902, not in Berguent, Morocco in 1890 as the Israel Cohen found in the Yad Vashem database. There are two Cohens in the transit lists with the name "Isidore", which is given as Israel Cohen's second name: one born 18 October 1887 in Constantinople, the other born 5 July 1894 in Paris. The former was on Convoy 66, which departed from Drancy bound for Auschwitz on 20 January 1944, the latter was on Convoy 23, which departed from Drancy with the same destination on 24 August 1942. If one of these two individuals is identical with "Israel Cohen", it is more likely the "Isidore Cohen" born in Paris in 1894, since it seems improbable that Jews would have been transported to Belarus as late as January or February 1944.
As Yeo-Thomas stepped down from the witness chair, Skorzeny and the other defendants stood at attention in a gesture of appreciation. The tribunal had to acquit the German defendants because otherwise they would have to admit that the victors fought under a different set of rules than the losers. Ironically, Skorzeny had won his case even though he had been defended by an American military lawyer, before a tribunal composed entirely of American military officers, and with his primary witness being a British military intelligence officer.[40]
Kues also argued that, contrary to the official story of ‘orthodox historians’ that not a single Dutch Jew was ever deported further east than Poland, there exists abundant evidence otherwise (of which he provided several examples), so that ‘There is ample reason to believe that the 28,060 alleged victims were in fact sent on to the German-occupied territories of the Soviet Union and the Baltic states.’
The release of Denial provides an opportunity to reconsider the events leading up to Irving’s libel lawsuit in 2000. To understand why Irving sought restitution in the courts, one must go back to 1993 and the release of Lipstadt’s anti-revisionist screed, Denying the Holocaust. While hailed by the mainstream media,1 Denying the Holocaust was actually a vicious and often inaccurate and misleading attack against those whom Lipstadt would tar with the label “deniers.”
This paper demonstrates with an example that the number of Holocaust victims claimed to be in the victims' database of the Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum in Jerusalem cannot be trusted, because anyone can place any number of false entries into that database! In this case, the fictitious person with data related to famous National-Socialist personalities (Joseph Goebbels's wife Magda, Adolf Hitler), was placed in that database, and it passed the obviously non-existing "quality control."
Testimony to the effect that there were no gas chambers, in any case, seems to be entirely lacking from the records of dozens of trials of people accused of having taken part in one way or another in the operation of “death camps,” or the process of rounding people up and sending them to those camps. It is hard to prove a negative, and just as hard to “observe” it. There are, to be sure, occasional accounts of camp experience that somehow omit reports of gas chambers. And there are even those veterans such as Paul Rassinier who claim[2] that their passages through multiple camps left them unpersuaded that such things existed, at least in the places he experienced. But these are so few and far between that they constitute the exceptions that prove the rule: that the Germans designed, installed, and operated gas chambers for killing people (the first ever, anywhere) in their infamous camps of World War II. Quite aside from their frequency (and certitude), their actual consistency provides that “convergence of evidence” whose “moral certainty” buttresses laws throughout Europe, and Israel, that provide jail terms for those who publicly express doubt as to any detail of the narrative.
The subject at hand is an article that briefly appeared on the Post website, titled “This disgraceful mocking of the Holocaust needs to stop now” (now available here; the original URL has been deleted). Written by an Australian journalist named David Goldman, the short essay obsesses over a three-year-old Croatian television interview in which historian and Croatian Jew Ivo Goldstein expounds on the “increasingly problematic” camp at Jasenovac. The interview, from 2018, included this question of Goldstein: “Many have commented on the lack of forensic evidence from this particular camp. Can you explain why this is the case?” (meaning, why there is an absence of evidence). Goldstein then dropped his “bombshell” reply: “Because in April 1945, Hitler flew in special machines to Jasenovac. These machines were used to dissolve the bones that were left.”
Crime should be in essence a deed, not an intention or feeling. The policeman catches the villain who has committed a crime: the criminal has done something wrong. But, once the category of “Thoughtcrime” is introduced, then respect for the law will soon be replaced by fear of law enforcement. If Jews have collectively a self-perception of their ancestors being put into gas chambers, and if they “feel” that they do not like people pointing out that this perception is untrue, then that is regrettable – but, it has no business being a crime. Citizens need to demand that the laws of their nation are just and fair.
So, while showing the disinfestation chambers, Levi deceptively talks about gas chambers, in the plural, used to kill seven people.
Aside from the trio Sehm-Frahm-Pook, the only witnesses offering evidence that Tesch and his fellow defendants had known that their gas was used to kill humans were two secretaries, Erna Elisa Biagini[78] and Anna Uenzelmann.[79] Neither of these witnesses told such a spectacular tale as Sehm, but they were seen at the trial as providing confirmation. Of the two, Biagini is the more interesting, in that she completely changed her story between her pretrial and trial statements.
British historian Laurence Rees, the former Creative Director of History Programmes for the BBC, has written a new "magnum opus": The Holocaust: A New History. This review lays bare a few of the shortcomings of this old wine in new wineskins.
During the course of an NPD meeting which he had hosted in August 1998 Roeder was alleged to have publicly denied “the genocide of the European Jews by the National Socialists.” Prosecutors charged that during this meeting, while speaking to his audience on the subject of the “Holocaust”, Roeder imprudently added the phrase, “as you well know never happened.”
There was, however, a certain ambiguity inherent in the Soviet promotion of the Holocaust ideology. Stalinist Communists promoted it because it served their interests in winning the war. Yet, at times they underplayed the claim that the Germans were attempting to exterminate the Jews, because they did not want to give credence to the National Socialist idea that Bolshevism and World Jewry were virtually identical.[57] As we shall see, ambiguity in regard to the Holocaust carries on to this very day in contemporary Russia.
Regarding the alleged gas chambers in the camp, Rajchman writes:
What befell the Armenian nation in 1915 was more than genocide, more than holocaust. It was not only the premeditated taking of human lives. It was the collective murder of a nation, a culture, a civilization, and a time-honored way of life…. The Armenian Genocide was the Young Turk regime’s comprehensive and violent dispossession, unprecedented in its evil and effect, of the Armenian nation.[42] [Emphases added].
It is interesting to see how prominent Jewish activist Jeremy Jones contributed to the debate. He claimed that for more than eighteen years of the operation of Section 18C, “in all that time, precisely one adjudicated complaint has been the subject of public controversy.”[115] He meant the Bolt case, of course. Jones referred in the same article to the Scully and Töben cases, as well as to two others involving what he felt was unfair treatment of Jews and each of which was dealt with without court action being necessary. He may have been right that the Scully and Töben cases excited little controversy at the time, but there are grounds for thinking that they should have been examined in much greater and more judicious detail by the media than was in fact the case. That is to say, they were not allowed to become controversial. It is interesting to note, in this context, that Senator Brandis, when he had announced the exposure draft, was asked whether there were cases other than that of Bolt where free speech had been stifled and could not – or did not – name a single one.[116] Perhaps he chose not to refer to the Scully and Töben cases through fear of being seen as a supporter of Holocaust deniers!
On Sunday, 29 January, John Podhoretz, editor of the American Jewish Committee's organ Commentary, continued to kvetch about Trump's failure to mention Jews. (An interesting detail here is that Podhoretz defines the Holocaust as “the effort by Nazi Germany to eradicate Jews from the face of the earth.” Not from Europe, but from the Earth, which presupposes the contention of quaint old war propaganda that Hitler intended to conquer the entire planet. Podhoretz is not living in the real world.)
Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement saying, "The reinstatement of a Holocaust denier by the Holy See offends every Jew, in Israel and around the world, and humiliates the memory of all Holocaust victims and survivors."
March. Paul Rassinier's article "'Le Commandant d'Auschwitz parle'. Un document historique ou le roman chez la portière?" is published in Défense de l'Occident, No. 3, pp. 36-44. In this article, Rassinier analyzes the recently published memoirs of the former Auschwitz commandant Rudolf Höss and compares it with his testimony from the Nuremberg Trial, highlighting a number of internal and external contradictions, while also taking note of the fact that Höss had been tortured by his British captors. Most significantly, Rassinier observed that Höss on one hand specifies the handling of the supposed killing agent Zyklon B as being very dangerous, while on the other hand he describes the members of the "Sonderkommando" as removing the bodies from the gas chambers immediately after the gassings, sometimes while eating and smoking (i.e. not wearing gas masks), without any accidents ever occuring—an observation that years later would be further developed by Robert Faurisson.
Or perhaps it was much earlier. In fact the western media had been reporting for years prior that the Germans wanted to “exterminate” the Jews. On 16 August 1933, the New York Times wrote that “600,000 [Jews] are facing certain extermination” in Germany (p. 11). Three years later that same paper discussed a petition decrying the “intolerable sufferings of the millions of Jews in the European holocaust,” and calling for “bold measures to save these unfortunate millions from total annihilation” (31 May 1936; p. 14). In 1938 the London Times wrote of the “terrible persecution of the Jews in Germany,” remarking that Germany was “a country which seemed disposed…to exterminate a section of its population” (14 December; p. 11). In June of 1940, the New York Times reported that “six million Jews are doomed to destruction,” and that they were facing “the danger of physical annihilation” (June 25; p. 4). I hasten to add here that, in spite of such claims, we have no clear evidence that either Hitler or any of the leading Nazis sought to murder millions of Jews; rather, their plan seems to have been deportation and expulsion, combined with a large measure of forced labor.
[23] Interview with Norman Finkelstein, by Viktor Frölke, in Salon.com, “Shoah business,” Aug. 30, 2000. See also Finkelstein, Norman, The Holocaust Industry, New York: Verso, 2000, p. 81.
“After the serial-number roll call at KL Auschwitz II, the camp was ordered isolated, and the Blöcke in the Gypsy family camp were ordered closed. Camp BIIe and other housing barracks still containing Gypsies were surrounded by armed SS soldiers. Trucks entered the camps, which then transported 2,897 defenceless men, women and children to the gas chambers in the crematorium.”[51]
The unreliability of eyewitness testimony of the Holocaust story has been commented on by some historians. Jewish historian Samuel Gringauz criticized what he called the “hyperhistorical” nature of most Jewish survivor testimony. Gringauz wrote that “most of the memoirs and reports are full of preposterous verbosity, graphomanic exaggeration, dramatic effects, overestimated self-inflation, dilettante philosophizing, would-be lyricism, unchecked rumors, bias, partisan attacks and apologies.”[22]
The Holocaust narrative of systematic, industrialized extermination was an important neo-conservative tool to drive the United States into Iraq. The same neo-con ideologues, like Norman Podhoretz, routinely compare Ahmadinejad to Hitler and Nazism with Islamofascism with the intent of driving us into Iran. The title of the Israeli conference at Yad Vashem made this crystal clear: "Holocaust Denial: Paving the Way to Genocide."
Now, if Lipstadt had wanted to associate Trump with a Holocaust Denier, she didn't have to take the long way around the barn, through Bannon and Spencer (who may have never met) to some anonymous doubters at the NPI conference. If she had really been aware, she could have mentioned Joseph Schmitz (under consideration to be Secretary of the Navy), whose father John Schmitz was a major supporter of the IHR. That would be much less tenuous and doubtful than the argument that she used.
October 9. Austin J App writes a letter to the Philadelphia Inquirer criticizing the treatment of Ilse Koch. The letter mentions the abuse of captured Dachau guards, as well as the torture and deceptions used to extract confessions from them. It also contends that the discovery at Buchenwald of lampshades made of human skin is an “unproven allegation”. In regards to the alleged criminal use of human remains, App draws a parallel to events in the Pacific War where US soldiers fashioned souvenirs out of the bones of fallen Japanese.[18]
In the eyes of the SS and much of the civilian population of the Soviet Union, many Jews were responsible for or accomplices to the Communist acts of violence. For example, the massacres of Jews committed by Ukrainians and SS men in July 1941 in Lemberg and other Galician towns were primarily retaliations for the mass murders of Ukrainians committed by the Soviets between June 22 and July 2, 1941. The reports of the Einsatzgruppen provide evidence of this:
Denmark’s “Anti-Racism” law is not applied to “Holocaust denial” cases, while in the Netherlands, cases relative to “Holocaust denial” are routinely applied by the courts under Articles 137c and 137e of the Penal Code.
The lies of the “Holocaust” are modeled on those of the First World War. All those “Nazi death-works,” like the ones at Auschwitz, are but a reprise of the myth of German “corpse factories” of 1914-1918. They were merely modernized by the adding of gas (Jewish-American version of November 1944) and sometimes of electricity (Jewish-Soviet version of February 1945). The good people, already generally not well disposed towards the practice of cremating the dead, were led to believe that Germany, a nation considered modern and known for having an abundance of engineers and chemists, had built structures containing, in addition to a cremation space, others called “gas chambers” (in reality, the “depositories,” Leichenhalle or Leichenkeller, technically designed to hold bodies awaiting cremation). Thus a certain propaganda has managed to persuade us that those German devils were dumb enough to house under the same roof, on one side, spaces full of a highly inflammable and explosive gas (the hydrocyanic acid or hydrogen cyanide contained in the pesticide Zyklon B, created in the 1920s) and, on the other side, crematory ovens that had to be laboriously brought to a temperature of 900° C.
Chil Rajchman’s account of the alleged extermination camp Treblinka II is fraught with more or less apparent contradictions and absurdities. To trust this man on his word that the Treblinka camp was equipped with homicidal gas chambers, where hundreds of thousands, if not millions of Jews were murdered in cold blood – in spite of the complete lack of material (or documentary) evidence to back up this allegation – is to be a pious fool.
Fischer began to develop politically incorrect ideas from his readings. Fischer read The Protocols of the Elders of Zion and many other conspiracy books. He also became convinced that the so-called Holocaust was a major fraud. Fischer’s Jewish mother Regina wrote him stating that Nazi Germany had murdered children like vermin in homicidal gas chambers. Fischer, however, remained an outspoken critic of the Holocaust story.[xv]
Not only these conservative figures, but also the emigration promoted by the German side during all years of the war, confirm that the intention for a 'final solution of the Jewish question' in the sense of the extermination claimed was never undertaken nor at any time even existed in any sense. For example, in 1942/43, the Reich government ordered more than 20,000 Hungarian Jews to emigrate to Switzerland. As early as 1940, several ships carrying Jews left France to go to Palestine, including the French passenger steamer 'Patria', which, pursued and shelled by British warships, ran itself aground on the beach off Haifa on 25 November 1940 and caught fire. Of the 3,800 Jewish passengers, 2,875 died. Between 1941 and 1943, more than 20 emigrant ships left Romanian and Bulgarian ports bound for Palestine. Six of them were sunk in the eastern Mediterranean, killing some of the passengers. As late as 1944, under difficult transport conditions, the Reich government evacuated 2,900 Jews to Sweden.
The deniers understand how to gain respectability for outrageous and absolutely false ideas. The anthropologist Marshall Sahlins has described how this process operates in the academic arena. Professor X publishes a theory despite the fact that reams of documented information contradict his conclusions. In the ‘highest moral tones’ he expresses his disregard for all evidence that sheds doubt on his findings. He engages in ad hominem attacks on those who have authored the critical works in this field and on the people silly enough to believe them. The scholars who have come under attack by this professor are provoked to respond. Before long he has become ‘the controversial Prof. X’ and his theory is discussed seriously by nonprofessionals, that is, journalists. He soon becomes a familiar figure on television and radio, where he ‘explains’ his ideas to interviewers who cannot challenge him or demonstrate the fallaciousness of his argument.
Many Jewish Holocaust historians also acknowledge that the Wannsee Conference did not discuss the extermination of Europe’s Jews. Israeli Holocaust historian Yehuda Bauer has declared, “The public still repeats, time after time, the silly story that at Wannsee the extermination of the Jews was arrived at.”[5] Likewise, Israeli Holocaust historian Leni Yahil wrote in regard to the Wannsee conference, “[I]t is often assumed that the decision to launch the Final Solution was taken on this occasion, but this is not so.…”[6]
Enter Leon Cohen. He was deported to Auschwitz in the middle of April 1944. He was then transferred to Birkenau where he received the registration number 182,492, and soon he was put to work in the Sonderkommando. He claims to have remained there for 11 months (which is impossible, as the crematories went out of service in November 1944). Strangely, he and his co-workers were not killed, and after the evacuation, he was sent to Mauthausen and other camps, where he was liberated by the Americans on May 5, 1945. He returned to Greece, and in 1980 he migrated to Israel.
This is where the disinfestation chambers are and the doors clearly marked with warnings. But the “shower room,” the alleged gas chamber, is located a few rooms away. The deception was to trick the average viewer into thinking, the clearly marked delousing chamber door with skull and crossbones located at the end of the building was the same as the shower room door. This dirty deception continues to this day.
On 5 April the prisoners are still at Buchenwald where there is an announcement for all Jews to form at the assembly place. All the children of Elie’s block are made to do this, motivated by menaces from block leader Gustav and his truncheon. And there is fear this is finally the end. But on the way to the assembly place some prisoners whisper to the children to return to their barracks, so they won’t be shot by the Germans. “Shot” mind you, 600 bullets if none of them miss, 600 bullets that might be used to defend against the approaching Americans, but not gas or the flaming pit, theoretically more efficient for mass killings. The whispers come either from members of the camp resistance organization or those who knew about the plans of such an organization, plans that provide the Jews will not be abandoned or allowed to be liquidated. With several thousand prisoners leaving the camp each day beginning 6 April, there are still some twenty thousand who remain on 10 April, including several hundred children. And on this day all are to be evacuated immediately, whereafter the camp is to be destroyed (Elie quotes the camp commandant as saying Buchenwald is to be “liquidated” but it is obvious what the term really means is the camp would be evacuated and destroyed). As everyone is massed in the huge assembly area, there is suddenly an alert and they all must return to their blocks. Now the evacuation is postponed until 11 April. Elie states those present haven’t eaten for six days, save for some bits of grass and potato peelings. And so it is with super-herculean willpower, however undernourished or weakened, while the SS are again moving the prisoners to the assembly point, the resistance rises up and after two hours of what must have been a very unequal battle fit for a Hollywood movie, is nevertheless master of the situation. The SS flee and the resistance is now in charge. And by six that evening the first American tank arrives.
• Depuis notre dernière visite, le Yad Vashem a dépouillé et encodé le mémorial des Juifs berlinois (plus de 52000 noms); or, il avait déjà encodé le mémorial des Juifs allemands, lequel reprenait déjà les noms des Juifs berlinois; dès lors, ces 52000 Juifs viennent d'être comptés une nouvelle fois dans la banque; ceux qui, parmi eux, ont été déportés par la Hollande ou la France (plusieurs milliers dont 500 qui se trouvaient dans le Palatinat et le Pays de Bade quand fut organisée l'évacuation des Juifs de ces régions à Gurs) sont donc comptés au moins trois fois et ceux qui ont été déportés à Lodz peuvent même être comptés quatre fois; y figurent aussi (et ce détail en dit long sur la désinvolture juive en matière de statistiques) 157 Juifs norvégiens ayant simplement transité par Berlin; les quelque 1250 malheureux qui ont choisi de se suicider plutôt que d'abandonner leur foyer n'ont pas été oubliés mais cela peut se comprendre. Ceux qui ont été déportés à Theresienstadt et au destin desquels nous allons nous intéresser dans la suite de cet article sont eux aussi comptés au moins trois fois puisque le Yad Vashem avait déjà encodé le mémorial de ce camp: ils sont près de 15000; toutefois, certains d'entre eux peuvent être comptés une quatrième fois s'ils ont été transférés à Auschwitz et y sont morts car le Yad Vashem vient également d'encoder les noms trouvés dans les registres mortuaires de ce camp encore que, contrairement à ce qui était à craindre, il n'ait encodé que les noms ayant une consonance juive. Un exemple en dehors des Berlinois: dans Dubitando, no. 4,[3] nous avons vu que le père de l'historien parisien Henri Minczeles, mort à Auschwitz, était repris quatre fois dans la banque; il est désormais repris une cinquième fois.
The United Nations was harnessed to the propaganda task when its International Day of Commemoration in Memory of the Victims of the Holocaust celebrated “Holocaust by Bullets” on 28 January 2013.
b) The formulation ”from various kinds of diseases alone“ insinuates that these 19,900 deaths were only a part of the total toll. As a matter of fact, the Soviet operatives later conjured up all kinds of other categories of victims without adducing any evidence to corroborate this claim.[75]
“What exactly did Hitler mean by this? A serious threat against the Jews, certainly. But did he explicitly mean that he intended to kill the Jews in the event of a world war? That is debatable, especially since there is no evidence that he had a detailed plan of destruction in mind for the Jews as he uttered these words. An alternative, more persuasive interpretation is that by ’annihilation’ Hitler meant ’elimination’, and thus one possible ’solution’ to the Nazis’ Jewish ’problem’ remained the destruction of the Jews in Europe by forcibly removing them from the continent.” (p. 147)
Regarding these little farmhouses there is the problem, however, that general agreement exists among traditional historians on their having been taken out of service in the spring of 1943, with “Bunker 1“ being dismantled and “Bunker 2“ being mothballed for a year. Putting two and two together, one may thus safely conclude on the basis of perfectly acceptable sources that for a period of about one year, from the spring of 1943 onwards, no systematic gassings took place in the Auschwitz-Birkenau area at all. In the light of this situation it would be indicated to re-examine all accounts of witnesses for this span of time, in an effort to weed out the unreliable ones.
The most-prominent proponent of this hypothesis is Dutch historian of architecture Dr. Robert van Pelt, who in his book about Auschwitz published several construction drawings of these devices he himself had prepared.[2] Inspired by this, Dr. Countess built a model which he presented at the above-mentioned conference, see Illustrations 1f.
Still another massive presumption of guilt arose from the tribunal’s declaration in its organizational phase that any person shown to have worked in, or for, Germany’s forced-labor- or deportation-transit-camp system was on that score alone guilty of and punishable for, war crimes. This means that even a nurse in a camp hospital or a cook in a camp galley was punishable for the crime of contributing to the welfare of inmates. Many altruistic souls whose every labor was exerted for the care and comfort—such as it was—of the inmates of a camp were sent to their deaths for their troubles, along, no doubt, with a few sadists who might in fact have deserved something like the punishments so abundantly meted out by the vengeful victors.
In a series of articles I will attempt to chronicle the history of Holocaust revisionism, from the end of World War II up till today.[1] For each year, I will provide some relevant details of historical backgrounds, such as Holocaust related trials, major developments in research etc. I will also append a brief outline of general historical events. The main part of each entry will be devoted to the major events of that year as directly related to Holocaust revisionism. Historical revisionist works will be mentioned only insofar they touch upon the fate of European Jewry during World War II. Skeptical responses to mass killing allegations made prior to 1945 have been omitted in part one, since they are too numerous to mention. [2] The author wishes to thank Jean Plantin[3] and Richard Widmann for the invaluable assistance they have provided in locating some of the sources quoted below. It should be kept in mind that this article series constitutes a history of Holocaust revisionism, and that the texts quoted may contain arguments that have later been found to be erroneous. Thus, I will generally not evaluate the validity of quoted or summarized arguments.
In the 1965 documentation Unsere Ehre heisst Treue, which is the source for the Arlt reports given by both Gerlach and Kohl, we are informed that the war diaries and activity reports of the 1st Company of the Waffen SS special-forces battalion were among "new material recently discovered" at the Czechoslovakian State Archives in Castle Zásmuky, Kolin.[30] The editor(s) provides no explanation as to how these documents were discovered, by whom, or the reason for their presence in the Czechoslovakian archives. Later the reports were evidently copied and incorporated into the archival collections of the Zentrale Stelle der Landesjustizverwaltungen in Ludwigsburg (ZStL).[31] The "recent" discovery of the reports most likely took place after 1963, because they were clearly not introduced as evidence at the Koblenz trial. There is no mention in Unsere Ehre heisst Treue of the documents ever being authenticated, and I have found no indication that Arlt himself survived the war, or that in such case he was confronted with the documents.
From time to time Elie tells us something unusual about the psychology of concentration camp life and here divulges an instance involving a work detail headed up by Idek, a bully Kapo. Normally, Elie and his father worked in an electronics warehouse at Buna but this incident occurs at a rail depot where they had to load Deisel engines. Idek breaks out into a frenzy over Elie’s father’s laziness and begins beating him with an iron bar. You can imagine the blows were not light. The father is in fact beaten so badly he is described as “broke in two,” like a tree struck by lightning, whereupon he collapses. And here is the strange part. Elie describes his anger as not directed towards Idek but wholly against his father “for not knowing how to avoid Idek’s outbreak.” If true, this is indeed bizarre. Elie blames the effects on camp life, but seen from a nature versus nurture viewpoint, one wonders at the boy’s character and what he is made of. One often learns the worst about oneself under conditions of turmoil and stress. And it is not the last of our friend Idek.
MR. LOGAN: It may be trifling, Your Honor, but to me it is more serious than that. A witness comes here and testifies the way he has. I’m trying to find out just what the situation was as he investigated it so that he can give this Tribunal some information on these alleged crimes.
Parts 2 and 3 report the author's recent discoveries concerning the presence in the wreckage of concentration camps of gas-tight doors and related appurtenances that have been interpreted as evidence of "gas chambers" intended for the purpose of killing people. He presents evidence (as always, without arguing it) from which readers may conclude that these "incriminating traces" were intended, like the Zyklon-B insecticide so extensively and humanely used in the camps, to protect the lives and well-being of inmates and guards from aerial gas attacks of the kind universally provided against not only by the beleaguered Germans, but by the Allies as well.
Thus, if Blatt would have actually seen “naked people being driven into the gas chambers,” he should have been killed by the Germans—according to the official story.
Slightly less malignant, but cancerous nonetheless, are those who gained their places aboard the Juggernaut through giving themselves “the benefit of the doubt.” This group is made up primarily of those claiming to have lost family members “in the Holocaust”; when in fact they have no explicit information of even deportation, much less death, of relatives they knew about in places and at times when they could have been affected by the Holocaust. These are, in the milder cases, people with whom they have lost touch, and might have lost touch even without the upheavals and disruptions that affected virtually all of Europe during and after World War II. They are people who themselves may lead lives of a style that could be described as disrupted who themselves would be hard for their relatives to maintain contact with if they did try. Haven’t heard anything in a long time? They died in the Holocaust. Finally heard from someone? Probably an imposter, looking for money or a way to get to the States. What language is that, anyway? Can you read it? They died in the Holocaust.
The numbers of dead in the decoded messages from Auschwitz roughly correlate with the numbers of dead recorded in the Auschwitz death-registry volumes. Since the Germans made their reports in transmissions using a supposedly indecipherable code, why would they report deaths from shootings and hangings but not from homicidal gassings? The Germans would have no reason to hide deaths by homicidal gassings in their encoded messages if such deaths had actually taken place.
While it is to some degree speculative to apply this pattern generously to all transports where we don’t know the fates of deportees not arriving at Auschwitz or at least not having been registered there, Czech’s procedure of picking a few transports and taking a few inmates off at Cosel is at least as speculative, and even more so her utterly unsupported claim that the difference between deportees boarding a train and those registered at Auschwitz (plus those taken off at Cosel) equals the number of deportees gassed on arrival.
Another important piece of evidence arguing against the existence of homicidal gas chambers is that the British broke the ultra-secret Enigma code used by the Germans to encode radio transmisions. During 1942 and 1943 British intelligence intercepted daily encoded messages from Auschwitz, Buchenwald, Dachau and seven other camps. Every day the Germans recorded the numbers of dead and the causes of death at each camp. The transmissions from Auschwitz mentioned illness as the primary cause of death, but also reported deaths attributable to shootings and hangings. There was no reference to gassing as a cause of death in any of the decoded messages.[23]
"The most recent evidence confirms what German interrogations of captured Soviet officers revealed in 1941, that Stalin was in fact planning to attack Hitler at the first opportune moment. For approximately fifty years this idea has bas been either dismissed as beneath contempt or savagely attacked, despite the fact that it conforms to the pattern of Soviet behavior both before 1939 and after 1945.
In any case, Hitchens also tries to rationalize the war in Iraq as a war for secularism by depicting Saddam Hussein as having become a religious nut in his final years. For example, Hitchens tells us (p.116): "...gigantic mosques began to be built in Saddam's own name." Through a Google search I found reports of the building of a "Mother-of-All-Battles" mosque. However, the writers of those reports regarded Saddam's mosque-building as a cynical use of religion for political purposes, and not as evidence of a sincere religious conversion on Saddam's part. Furthermore, Hitchens may be lying by omission once again. A Google search confirmed that as late as 2003 Saddam was still promoting the rebuilding of Babylon, a project that would be of no interest to a Muslim fanatic. (Babylon was center of civilization back in the days of "ignorance," as ignorant Muslims refer to pre-Islamic times.) Hitchens makes no mention of Saddam's rebuilding of Babylon. Ignorance? Or lying by omission?
All the evidence points to Pasic knowing of the plot in some detail. But the message passed to the Austrians alluded only to unspecified dangers to the Archduke should he visit Bosnia. The fact is, as Clark states, Pasic and the others well understood that “only a major European conflict involving the great powers ‘would suffice to dislodge the formidable obstacles that stood in the way of Serbian ‘reunification.”’
The vast majority of concentration camps were not ‘extermination camps’—even on the orthodox view—and imprisonment (in 1942) was not a death sentence. Given this fact, Goebbels seems to accept either imprisonment or death equally, since both remove the Jews from society. There is no preference for one over the other. If mass extermination really was underway, he would not have written this.
What certainly puts the mass extermination claim in spurious light is the dates of the transports. The first convoy allegedly exterminated at Trostenets departed from Vienna on 6 May 1942. By this point in time three "extermination camps" – Auschwitz-Birkenau, Chełmno and Bełżec – were already in operation in Poland, and a fourth, Sobibór, was just about to open. In late July 1942 all six of the "extermination camps" were active. But if these camps really were sites of industrialized mass murder, why send 16-30 convoys with Jews from the west all the way to Belarus, when they could be sent half the distance or less to be killed in Poland? The only logical conclusions from this seems to be: a) the RSHA were completely incompetent as far as logistics are concerned; b) the KdS Minsk had the Jews deported to Maly Trostenets killed on the initiative of Heydrich and/or Himmler, who for some reason sought to keep the killings of these transports secret from the one who had ordered them, i.e. Hitler; or c) the deported Jews, or at least part of them, were indeed resettled to other locations in the Minsk region. If we are to believe holocaust historians like Gerlach, all authorities in Minsk were aware of the mass murders carried out at Trostenets[54] , so that it seems completely implausible that the operation could have been kept hidden by Himmler and Heydrich. This would leave only alternatives A and C. Exterminationists, of course, have no problem engaging in "double-think" and may simultaneously believe that the alleged perpetrators of the mass killings were bumbling fools and cold-blooded, efficient bureaucrats. What then about alternative C?
The next logical question: how were the bodies removed from the “gas chambers?” Historian Arad says that the victims entered through one door and their dead bodies were extracted through the other.[48]
After the former Polish military barracks south of the Polish city of Oswiecim had been converted into a concentration camp by German authorities following the Polish defeat in September 1939, the old munitions bunker on the grounds of that camp was converted into a crematorium for the incineration of the remains of deceased or executed inmates. In war-time and post-war literature, this building is alternately referred to as either the old crematorium or Crematorium I. The morgue of this facility is said to have been converted into a homicidal gas chamber subsequent to an initial test gassing conducted in the camp’s gaol in September of 1941.[1] This was asserted already two months prior to the end of World War Two by a combined Polish-Soviet investigative commission, which stated the following about this in its report:[2]
The 7708th War Crimes Group was established under the command of Colonel Clio E. Straight, an Iowa lawyer and businessman in the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General’s Corps during the war. The purpose of these U.S. Army courts, as distinct from the four-power tribunals, was to investigate alleged war crimes committed against American personnel. From April 1945 to December 1947 these war crimes groups undertook 222 trials. The Army set up an independent reviewing authority, supposedly to provide a fair trial for the defendants. The head of the post-trial section was Samuel Sonenfield, whose name could only have confirmed suspicions as to the provenance of the Allied judicial regime. This U.S. Army group was responsible for the trial of the Malmedy Massacre defendants, from May 16 to July 16, 1946. The defendants had been accused of shooting American soldiers who had surrendered during the Battle of the Bulge, in Belgium. The U.S. Army later investigated the methods of extracting confessions, after a process set in motion by those who convinced Senator McCarthy to take up the cause. A dissertation on the U.S. War Crimes Group, although favorable towards the whole war crimes process, nonetheless states of the defendants that
“Pseudoscholarly ‘Revisionism’ bears all the hallmarks of a ‘degenerating research programme’, to use the terminology of the philosopher of science Imre Lakatos. In this regard, negationism mirrors a common tendency among conspiracy theory pseudoscholarship more generally. Not only are there simply fewer ‘Revisionist’ researchers, but their books have lengthened as the gurus are forced to confront a larger body of evidence for the Holocaust. Moreover, denier research remains resolutely negationist, with significantly more effort expended attacking eyewitnesses, documents and forensic evidence generally thought to prove mass murder than in locating any evidence that might support ‘Revisionist’ conspiracy claims about Allied and Soviet manipulation, or which might prove an alternative explanation of the fate of the Jews in Nazi and Axis hands.” (p. 42)
It is precisely on this point, the idea of intrinsic evil based on ethnicity, that one finds a strong point of contact not only with the Nazi agenda towards Jews but also the American agenda against its Japanese residents. For example, the Niihau incident in early December 1941, in which a Japanese pilot landed his plane on a small Hawaiian island and received succor from three resident Japanese Americans, was widely ballyhooed at the time and taken as evidence of the susceptibility of Japanese Americans to treason, at least by the advocates of internment.
In conformity with the above mentioned directives, the first transports sent to Auschwitz contained only able-bodied Jews who were immediately registered.
David Cole next interviewed Dr. Franciszek Piper, the head of archives and the senior curator of the Auschwitz State Museum. Dr. Piper explained in the videotaped interview that the gas chamber shown to tourists at Auschwitz is similar to the one that existed in 1941-1942, but not all details are the same, so that, for example, there are no gas-tight doors. In other words, the gas chamber is not in its original state but is rather a postwar reconstruction. Cole’s video documents that the museum officials deceive tourists by representing that the gas chamber at Auschwitz is in its original state even though the museum officials know better. The postwar reconstruction they show tourists at Auschwitz is worthless as proof of anything. Also, there is not a single wartime document or photograph to confirm what the alleged homicidal gas chamber at Auschwitz looked like.[24]
If it can be agreed that millions of Jewish and German civilians were uprooted during forced expulsions and that many hundreds of thousands and perhaps even millions of each group died from various causes including official policy, disease and starvation, do we honestly believe that one of these groups should not be memorialized because they somehow "deserved it?" Is it not that very thinking, whose foundation is revenge and retaliation, that results in war crimes and dare I say it, holocausts?
Van Pelt wasn’t the first to prepare construction drawings of these columns. That honor goes to the late French historian Jean-Claude Pressac, who had published his own drawings in his 1989 opus magnum.[4] Both authors have based their drawings on a postwar testimony by Michał Kula – hence the name of the columns. Kula was a Polish Auschwitz inmate who testified shortlyafter the war a number of times about what he claimed to have experienced at Auschwitz.
In his post-war declaration writing in the summer of 1945, former SS man Pery Broad was a little more specific about the doors of this claimed homicidal gas chamber, making it clear that this was a heavy, gas-tight, panic-proof door:[10]
I conclude this brief panoramic overview with another eyewitness testimony, that of Miklos Nyiszli, self-proclaimed physician in the "Sonderkommando" in the same period in which Venezia was working there. He wrote that "Bunker 2", never referred to in this manner by Nyiszli, but described as "a long decrepit building with a stubble roof", "a peasant cottage", was not a gassing installation, but rather a simple "undressing room" for the Jewish victims, who did not die in a gas chamber, but rather, from a gunshot to the back of the neck on the edge of two enormous "cremation pits"[105].
Nor were the offences committed against the laws of Germany or Poland. They were committed in the concentration camp at Treblinka and were done by the orders of those in authority in those states.
Finally, Barnard observed that ‘a certain symbolism has been attached to Demjanjuk’. Here he touched one of the most crucial aspects of the whole Demjanjuk story. By 1993 Demjanjuk had become widely known throughout the world as one whose vindication in Israel had cast an extremely strong spotlight on the whole campaign against ‘Nazi war criminals’ and, by extension, on the received view of World War Two history including the Holocaust.
Crowell has added two new articles, “Revisiting the Bomb Shelter Thesis” and “The Holocaust in Retrospect” which bring his scholarship and research up to date.  The latter article alone is probably worth the price of admission.
- Joseph Gelbart. 3 camps: From Auschwitz to Belzec and back to Auschwitz.
Equally helpful is Crowell's explanation of the devastating impact of the Nuremberg Trials on subsequent Holocaust research. What scholars have been able to access about the Holocaust are a selection of documents from the German archives that were gathered and used for the express purpose of convicting the Nazi leadership in the first five years after World War II ended. Later the judgment of the International Military Court was declared unchallengeable, and criminal penalties were applied to those who publicly questioned the court's findings. This means that the same documents, along with a culpatory interpretation of those documents, have remained fixed for over sixty years. As Crowell notes: "This never happens in normal historiography."
We made good time, arriving in Malkinia before 10:30 am, and only some 10 km from the camp. But then a problem: the bridge over the Bug River was out of service. We would have to go down to the next crossing at Leg Nurski, about 20 km away, and then work our way back to the camp. This little detour threw our Warsaw-based cabbie for a loop, and with signage virtually nonexistent, I knew we were in a bit of a fix. So we crossed the river, worked our way down to Kosow Lacki, stopped two or three times for directions, drove up past Wolka Okraglik, and on to the entrance of the camp—after 45 extra minutes. But we were there. We drove right in—no gate, no guard, no entrance fee—and parked. Only two other cars in the lot, a relief; no Auschwitz-style Disneyland here.
The phrase upon release means that these people will have to be kept detained, not killed (nor released). Cesarani of course, employing the standard sleights of the Holocaust historians, omits it. Nevertheless, he still admits:
During David Irving’s libel trial against Deborah Lipstadt, he and Robert van Pelt discussed to what degree Holocaust witnesses may have influenced one another by what Irving termed “cross-pollination.”9 I suggest instead that this document proves that the German judicial authorities were (and probably still are) involved in a massive campaign of systematically pollinating, planting and cultivating “memories” on a massive scale, thus turning all these procedures, which were based almost exclusively on witness statements, into an indelible blot on the face of the German judicial system.
“I analyzed the specifics of the alleged extermination process at Auschwitz. I showed that all of the specific material facts required a dual interpretation of relatively mundane facts, e.g. transports, selections, showers, shaving hair, Zyklon B, crematoria, etc., all real and all relatively mundane, had been given a second [devious] interpretation.” – unquote
While there was no evidence of a military necessity for the incarceration of German, Italian, or Japanese Americans during World War Two, we are faced with a similar situation today, only this time with Arab and Muslim internees.  President Obama came into office in 2009 promising to shut down the Guantanamo Bay detention camp and end the extra-judicial system that President George W. Bush had created to imprison terrorist suspects without trial, often without even filing charges.
[21] Rudolf, Germar, The Rudolf Report: Expert Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz, Washington, D.C.: The Barnes Review, 2011, pp. 204-205.
The machine still exists. It is now an exhibit at the National Museum of the History of the Great Patriotic War in Kiev where it is shown to horrified visitors as a proof of “German fascist barbarism”. Three historical photographs taken by the Soviet Extraordinary State Commission (ESC) in 1944 can be found at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, at the Mémorial de la Shoa in Paris and on their respective Websites.
A few figures, first of all: from the drawings and photographs published in The Case… and elsewhere one can deduce that the “undressing room“ measured about 8 m in width by 50 m in length, or about 400 sqm, whereas the “gassing chamber” was smaller: about 7 m wide and 30 m long, i.e. roughly 200 sqm.
Fred Brown, a spokesman for the Republican Jewish Coalition, likewise accused Trump's Jewish critics of subordinating Holocaust Remembrance to partisan politics:
French National Front leader Bruno Gollnisch, who serves as a professor of Japanese civilization and Japanese law at Lyons University III, faced similar travails as Jean Le Pen when he remarked that the existence of Nazi gas chambers was a matter of legitimate debate for historians. Gollnisch stated, “There isn’t a serious historian around who totally sticks by the conclusions of the Nuremberg Trials. I’m not questioning the existence of concentration camps, but on the number of deaths, historians can discuss it. As to whether gas chambers existed, that’s up to the historians to determine.”[13]
The Trial of the Major War Criminals before the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg, (1945-6) indicted twenty-four Germans, of whom twenty-one ultimately sat in the dock.[2] Plucked from a shattered nation, interrogated constantly and largely held in solitary confinement, they represented those whom the victorious Allies deemed to be the most culpable remaining members of the National Socialist state. The prosecution of such a diverse range of men – from political figures to military personnel, to economic and industrial leaders – was an awkward task. International law was created and bent to suit purpose and the woolly charge of ‘Conspiracy’ was introduced to bind the cases together. Ultimately, after nearly a year of proceedings and a barrage of evidence from all four of the Allied nations, eleven men were sentenced to death [3], three received life sentences, two received twenty years, one fifteen and one ten. The other three defendants, Hjalmar Schacht, Hans Fritzsche and Franz von Papen were acquitted, although all were immediately rearrested and convicted by German denazification courts, receiving sentences of various lengths. At Nuremberg, there were no innocent men.
These post-liberation images of Bergen-Belsen as well as Dachau and Nordhausen have become symbols of German barbarism. But these people were victims of the larger war, not a deliberate German extermination plan. The Germans did what they could to keep people alive, and in some cases contacted the Red Cross for assistance and even turned over some camps to them. The shameful truth hidden amongst this Holocaust propaganda is that not only were none of these people gassed, but the Allies played a major role in their deaths.
Howard Storm also writes that “This Holocaust was breaking God’s heart” and “God wants this never to happen again.” Storm concludes, “This was one of the low points in human history.”[12]
Sperling was deported to Treblinka from Czestochowa “almost at the end of the period of deportations” from that city (pp. 243–244). According to the transport lists presented in Yitzhak Arad’s book on the Reinhardt camps, the last deportation from Czestochowa to Treblinka took place on 5 October 1942. Sperling informs us (p. 244) that the “disinfectant calcium chloride” was “scattered liberally into each wagon” of the convoy. This practice is likely the origin of the early holocaust claim (found in the writings of Jan Karski and others) that the Germans were killing the Jews not in gas chambers but in transport trains, using chloride or unslaked lime. Sperling also reveals that Polish workers which the Jews of the convoy encountered during the drawn-out railway travel spread atrocity stories causing great fear among the deportees (p. 245):
Early witnesses originally claimed these western-liberated camps also had homicidal gas chambers, disguised as shower rooms. However, British and American doctors performed thousands of autopsies on some of the corpses the Allies discovered in those camps.
Cover art for an upcoming study of the testimonies of one of the key witnesses propping up the orthodox Auschwitz narrative.
In October 1997, David Irving received an invitation from the BBC to assist in a proposed documentary dealing with the suppression of free speech in Europe. Irving accepted the invitation and contacted officials at the Auschwitz State Museum to request permission to peruse their archives for documentation related to construction plans, administration, and photographs of the camp.
This letter is a response to Daniel McGowan’s defense of Holocaust deniers published in the Finger Lakes Times on September 27. The content of the essay and its publication on the eve of Yom Kippur was appalling. We are writing to you because of the disgrace to Hobart and William Smith caused by McGowan’s continued use of the institutional imprimatur and his honorary title of “Emeritus Professor” to lend credence in disseminating his personal beliefs. He has every right as a private citizen to hold and spew forth whatever beliefs he may happen to have, but we ask you to prevent the use of his title and the name of Hobart and William Smith from contributing to its effects in the future.
COL. AMEN: Will you explain to the Tribunal the nature of the assistance required?
Now, good books should make you think, and in that sense The Case… is a good book. It makes you wonder about quite a number of things, especially if it is read together with other publications on this painful subject such as Roseman’s second thoughts – reconsiderations as he calls them – on the Wannsee conference in which he does away with many a cherished dogma, Hilberg’s book on the sources of the Holocaust which quietly drops such long-standing and formerly essential witnesses as Kurt Gerstein or Jan Karski, or Yehuda Bauer’s Rethinking the Holocaust which mentions in passing that the Nazi regime was not as totalitarian as most people seem to think or speaks of the difficulty of documenting the really central events of the Holocaust. This short list of recent critical writings about the German persecution of the European Jews is far from complete, particularly if one thinks of Fritjof Meyer’s article in Osteuropa (5/2002) which, in spite of its many errors, certainly opened up new vistas.
It proved more than enough. Eventually, a broken Frau Hoess betrayed the whereabouts of the former Auschwitz Kommandant, the man who now called himself Franz Lang. Suitable intimidation of the son and daughter[10] produced precisely identical information” (My emphasis)
Heinrich Heine, a Nineteenth-Century German poet and essayist, is most remembered for his comment, “Where books are burned, in the end people will be burned too.” Today his quote is prominently displayed in the Yad Vashem Holocaust museum in Jerusalem as well as in the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM).[1] In its contemporary context, Heine’s quote is understood to mean that an ideology that refuses to tolerate minority opinion will ultimately become a mortal threat to minorities themselves. It is often associated with incidents in Germany during National Socialist rule and is typically viewed as a prophetic warning.
We now examine two national Holocaust-Denial laws, French and German.
I myself, being, if I may say so, at the extreme center of opinions concerning politics or history, cannot pronounce condemnation of a given belligerent’s having sought, as in a kind of competition in the matter, to invent still more means of killing than its opponent. I would be content to say that for me, every war is a butchery; the winner is a good butcher and the loser not so good a butcher; on the other hand, at the end of a war, the winner may at most administer to the vanquished lessons in butchery but not lessons in law, justice or virtue. Yet that is what happened at the Nuremberg trial (1945-1946) and in a thousand other “trials” of the same calibre  up to today where we see Jewish  organizations demanding that sickly nonagenarians be carried into court on a stretcher for “crimes” generally going back seventy years and for which there is no evidence nor sometimes even the least witness: the defendant had perhaps simply found himself in the wrong place at the wrong time; for instance, he had supposedly been at Treblinka, a camp in which some presume to say, without the least evidence, that, according to certain persons, homicidal “steam chambers” operated (Nuremberg  Document PS-3311), and according to others, homicidal “gas chambers”: the “testimonies” are vague, contradictory and the trouble has never been taken to verify them, which, as certain revisionists like the Australian Richard Krege have proved, is nonetheless possible and shows that the revisionists are right (“Treblinka Ground Radar Examination Finds No Trace of Mass Graves,” in The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 19, No. 3, May-June 2000, p. 20: http://www.ihr.org/jhr/v19/v19n3p20_radar.html).
There are two particularly interesting deportation cases in the above table: those arriving at Auschwitz on December 10 and 12. They came from Małkinia, which was a camp near the infamous Treblinka camp. Here is the question: if the vast majority of Jews coming from Małkinia (Czech claims that 79% of them were gassed at Auschwitz) were really slated to perish in gas chambers, why did the German authorities in charge of shipping Jews around Europe not select them right in Małkinia and send those unfit for labor – or unworthy of living, whatever the case may be – around the corner to the claimed highly efficient gassing facilities at the Treblinka extermination camp? Maybe because there was no such thing as a Treblinka extermination camp?[20] Or maybe because no Jew deported from Małkinia to Auschwitz was killed at Auschwitz? You decide.
It may be difficult to avoid it. Our best literary and ideas magazine, Quadrant, appears to be thoroughly unsympathetic to Holocaust revisionism. Its May 2014 edition carried an orthodox (or bien-pensant) article entitled “The Lethal Ideology of Holocaust Inversion” by Daryl McCann.[127] The June edition carried an editorial dealing with the campaign to reform the Racial Discrimination Act, in which the editor stated that Richard Evans’s book Telling Lies about Hitler “not only cost [David] Irving his case [in the British High Court in 2000], it systematically destroyed the credibility of the entire genre of Holocaust denial”, which is a “sleazy business.” Quadrant chose not to publish a short letter I sent querying this sweeping judgment, but in its September edition it published a letter from Jewish intellectual Mark Braham claiming without qualification “Holocaust deniers are proven liars.”
Most people have heard of the National Socialist book burning. It happened on May 10, 1933, when mostly pornographic and literature considered to be anti-German was publicly set afire. Few people realize that the Allies removed and then destroyed no fewer than 34,645 titles of books and brochures from German libraries and bookstores after they conquered Germany. This is many times more books than were destroyed by National Socialist Germany. Even today possession of books doubting the Holocaust story can lead to a house search and confiscation of the incriminating literature, with fines and jail time meted out to the owner of the books.[23]
The English Rule, of course, is meant to discourage frivolous, or vindictive, actions at equity. But the Lipstadt/Penguin team, somehow (“the fix is in”?) figured that their expenditures on “defense,” even if not ultimately collectible, could so financially cripple Irving that neither he nor any other soldier who might take his place in the ranks of Holocaust dissenters would dare to complain, in any forum of “justice,” about anything said of him or her by the other side. Penguin, of course, faced this very same stacked System of justice in the action threatened against them by Lipstadt.
Yet another aspect of the Zentai case is the suggestion that a kind of blackmail may be being applied to Australia (and perhaps Hungary) in the matter. In 2009 a Monash University law school senior lecturer, Gideon Boas, a strong advocate of war crimes trials generally, stated: ‘We’re [Australia] going to start to be perceived internationally, if not internally, as being a country that’s not serious about prosecuting war crimes.’[121] Boas, presumably a Jew, is a former senior legal officer at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. The Age has published articles by him in favour of war crimes trials.[122] Remarks such as that of Boas make one wonder about other possible threats that may have been made to governments behind the scenes.
'I resided on German occupied territory, in Minsk. On February 29, 1944, the German-Fascist invaders arrested me and my husband Yakov Savinsky for connections with partisans, and put us in the Minsk jail. In mid-May, after long and terrible tortures in which we did not confess our connections with the partisans, I and my husband were transferred to the S.S. concentration camp in Shirokaya Street, where we were kept until June 30, 1944. On that day, with fifty other women, I was put into a truck and taken to an unknown destination. The truck drove about six miles from Minsk to the village of Maly Trostinets and stopped at a shed.
As regards the term for the alleged barracks-morgue, Venezia confuses the term for the barracks with the term for the semi-underground morgue in Crematorium II/III: " Leichenkeller", literally translated, means "corpse cellar"; all the other morgues at Birkenau were in fact on ground level. As we will see, Venezia states that he was assigned to the so-called "Sonderkommando" of Crematorium III, but, rather curiously, he never mentions the term " Leichenkeller" precisely where he should mention it: " Leichenkeller1" was in fact the alleged homicidal gas chamber.
"But the estimated capacity of the crematorium the SS had ordered was more than 3,000 corpses a day." (p. 61)
Hilberg writes that the Jewish population of Belgium on the eve of the German invasion “most probably” amounted to more than 65,000 people, the majority of whom did not possess Belgian citizenship but were immigrants from Eastern Europe as well as refugees from the Third Reich. At the time of the German invasion “thousands” of the Jews fled south, whereas another 8,000 were shoved by the German occupants into France. A subsequent registration of the Jews encompassed 55,670 Jews on Belgian territory and another 516 Jews in two French départements attached to the Brussels military administration.[32] Starting in August 1942, a total of 25,000 Jews were deported from Belgium to Auschwitz, and of those fewer than 1,500 returned after the war. According to Hilberg, “several hundred” Belgian Jews died in their country during arrest or committed suicide.[33] Approximately 25,000 Belgian Jews were sent to Auschwitz, and of these some 15,700 are alleged to have been gassed; a smaller number was also sent to Majdanek.
To start with, we will consider who may introduce evidence in German criminal trials. According to Section 214 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure, witnesses are summoned by the judge or by the district attorney, and evidence of other kinds is usually introduced by the district attorney, although the judge also has the power to do so.
[30] Nordling, Carl O., “How Many Jews Died in the German Concentration Camps?”, The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 11, No. 3, Fall 1991, pp.335-337.
Importantly, Sanning shows that many of these Jewish losses were caused not by a program of German genocide, but by Soviet barbarism. Sanning states that hundreds of thousands of Jews lost their lives during the Soviet deportation to the east or in the Siberian labor and concentration camps. Sanning concludes that the food supply, shelter, and clothing provided to the Jewish inmates in the Soviet camps was woefully inadequate, and that medical attention was almost completely lacking.[16] Sanning’s conclusion is supported by Jewish historian Gerald Reitlinger, who said: “In Southern Siberia the death-rate was very high for […] Jews […].”[17]
The Soviet Union is first. Their political and military leaders face serious prosecutions for plotting and waging aggressive war against Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Rumania, and Poland. They face accusations of enslaving and working to death many hundreds of thousands, even millions, of captured German and Japanese prisoners of war. The new postwar word ‘genocide’ is used, coupled with more and greater accusations of having worked to death scores of millions of their own citizens in their GULAG system of labor camps, a veritable holocaust within their own borders. They are additionally charged with responsibility for the genocide in which somewhere between 6 and 12 million German civilians perish from forced population transfers from their own ancestral homelands into a now truncated postwar Germany - transfers in which rape, torture, murder, and complete dispossession are more the rule rather than the exception.
Following Back Door to War, Tansill collaborated with several of the best-known World War Two revisionists on Harry Elmer Barnes’s anthology, Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace (1953). Tansill contributed two articles, “The United States and the Road to War in Europe” and “Japanese-American Relations: 1921-1941; The Pacific Back Road to War” that continued his argument from Back Door to War. His work was bolstered by Barnes, Frederic Sanborn, George Morgenstern, Percy Greaves, Jr., William Henry Chamberlin and others.
Hence, in total Czech claims that, during 1942, some 4925 deportees were taken off the trains travelling through Cosel. This is pure conjecture. For all we know, the number of inmates taken off at Cosel could have been lower or higher, or could have included even all of the inmates that were not registered at Auschwitz.
“When the Auschwitz museum was confronted with the fact that the innocuous delousing chambers at Auschwitz have blue walls – due to being saturated with blue iron cyanide compounds – but the alleged homicidal gas chambers have not, they commissioned their own chemical research. Instead of testing wall samples for the chemicals that had caused the blue stains, the researchers they commissioned simply excluded those chemicals from their analysis by employing a procedure that could not detect them. They justified this measure with the claim that they did not understand exactly how these compounds could form and that they might therefore be mere artifacts. Researchers who don’t understand what they are investigating have no business becoming involved. In this case, however, it appears to be deliberate. They have deliberately ignored an obvious explanation--that Zyklon B was only used for delousing--which would have remedied their lack of comprehension. As a result of this failure to adhere to the principles of science, they produced a report of no scientific value, which they used to arrive at a predetermined conclusion.”
Cox does acknowledge that approximately 13,000 corpses were buried in mass graves in Birkenau in 1942 because deaths from a typhus epidemic exceeded the limited cremation capacity in the camp at the time. Most of these bodies were later exhumed, with many bodies probably directly burned on pyres.[21] However, Cox says a photograph taken of Birkenau on May 31, 1944 provides irrefutable proof that the alleged incineration of Hungarian Jews on enormous outdoor pyres has been nothing other than a gigantic propaganda lie.[22]
In 1947, the Polish government enacted a law that commemorated the martyrdom of Poland and other nations at the Auschwitz concentration camp, and the new Auschwitz State Museum was born.[69] As Robert Jan van Pelt observed, “Poles and Jews contend for the spiritual ownership of the camp. Auschwitz is the most significant memorial site of the [Jewish Holocaust], and it is also the most significant memorial site of Polish suffering under German rule.”[70]
The Holocaust, broadly defined, was displacement, dispossession, enslavement and frequently death of groups disfavored by Germany’s National Socialist government, classically, if not mostly, Jews. It was no more a program of genocide than was the program of the conquering Allies in their blockading, bombing and eventual expulsion from their homelands  of helpless Germans in their millions, leading to fates comparing most “favorably” in both severity and numbers with those alleged to have happened to Jews—and all this before the atrociously brutal occupations.
To the best of our knowledge, the only attempt to determine the number of Soviet POWs shot at Sachsenhausen with any degree of accuracy was made by the district court of Cologne (Köln) at the trial of Kaiser, et al. (1965).[21] However, the verdict freely admitted: “It was not possible to ascertain the number of the shot Russians. There were no documents about this question.” All the same, the court quoted two sources it considered relatively trustworthy: A compilation by the former Arbeits- und Rapportführer Gustav Sorge and a statement made by the former camp elder (Lagerälteste) Harry Naujoks who had been assigned to collect the identification tags of the Russian soldiers. Despite its initial reluctance to name a concrete figure, the court finally concluded:
The tale of the victims who, unable to walk, were carried to the crematoria by truck and were thrown down by overturning the large dump truck "like sand, to be unloaded and they fell one on top of each other"[186], is a simple comment on the related drawing by Olère, presented as "women selected in the camp, unloaded in front of Crematorium III"[187].
[20] Wear, John, “Sonderkommandos in Auschwitz”, The Barnes Review, Vol. XXIII, No. 1, Jan. /Feb. 2017, pp. 28-32.
Sanning also writes that Jewish sources document that a minimum of 200,000 Jews died while serving in Allied armies during the war.[35] These Jewish “in-service” deaths cannot be attributed to any German program of genocide against the Jews.
Source: Gedenkstätte und Museum Sachsenhausen; published in: G. Morsch and Alfred Reckendress. See Endnote 1.
But if the "sardine packing" story is to be taken seriously, with the corollary of killing by means of a shot to the back of the neck using Soviet machine pistols, the absence of Soviet cartridge casings would be evidence against the genocide!
I am in possession of a photocopy of a comprehensive letter (No. 24 AR 1/62 [Z]) which the director of the North Rhine-Westphalian Chief Prosecutor’s Central Office for the Investigation of National Socialist Mass Crimes in Concentration Camps in Cologne sent to all potential witnesses in his investigation concerning the concentration camp Sachsenhausen. The whole thing goes on for more than 100 pages and is an instructive example of how the accusations against the SS personnel of Sachsenhausen were “managed.” It offers an excellent instance of the procedures of the Central Office and other departments cooperating with it. In the letter, which was signed by the prosecutor, Dr. Gierlich, it is indicated to the addressee that preliminary investigations of the SS personnel who were stationed at Sachsenhausen were to be conducted “with expert advice by the Sachsenhausen Committee” (!). The addressee is then asked to give information about his experiences “in the sense of this letter” (page 1). Extensive lists of names are enclosed with the letter. Regarding this, on page 4 of this letter it is stated: “The names of the persons about whom I seek information are found in Appendices III, IV, V, and VI. Who of these took part in the crimes committed in Sachsenhausen? Should you know the names of additional SS personnel whom you could accuse of concrete crimes, please give me this information as well…”
Bill M. Armontrout, the warden of Missouri State Penitentiary, testified at the 1988 Ernst Zündel trial as to the operation of the Missouri homicidal gas chamber:
Nevertheless, Lipstadt partially validated and made some sense of a traditional “anti-Semitic stereotype.” According to her findings, Simon Wiesenthal did create a myth of a non-Jewish Holocaust for the sake of Jewish ends: he wanted to gain non-Jewish interest in the Holocaust ideology. This devious fabricator did harm the Germans—he slandered them by falsely claiming they murdered five million Gentiles. I can vividly recall that in decades past a non-Jew would be tagged with the dreaded “anti-Semite” label if he dared suggest in a mainstream publication that Simon Wiesenthal was a “Jewish Conspirator.”
I attended a performance for reasons that were not completely clear to me. First, like many operagoers, I view the great age of opera as having ended with Richard Strauss; some would even end it with Giacomo Puccini. I considered it likely that, on purely artistic grounds, I would not enjoy it very much. Second, my quarrel with the "Holocaust" has to do with its historicity; the problem of dramatic representation would seem, at first thought, to be unimportant, since most dramas are fictitious anyway. A statue, if invited to dinner, will not nod acceptance, let alone come, but that fact doesn't diminish the awe that we feel for Mozart's Don Giovanni, which is universally considered a masterpiece.
[7] Berg, Friedrich Paul, “The Diesel Gas Chamber: Ideal for Torture—Absurd for Murder,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 456.
Not surprisingly, even though David Irving never claimed to be an Holocaust historian, Lipstadt writes: “Virtually all the claims by Holocaust deniers prior to the spring of 2000 had been demolished.”[26] Lipstadt fails to explain how a decision by a British judge in a case not involving an Holocaust revisionist historian demolished Holocaust revisionist claims.
The hoaxers pulled the same old trick angle in the camera to block out the many windows of this real working shower room. The top official authorities today concede this room was a real shower, never used to gas anyone. Moreover, no mainstream historian has ever claimed that there was a homicidal gas chamber at the Flossenbürg Camp.
Curtis confirms that he is not a defender of free speech by happily noting that several European countries have passed laws “making denial of the Holocaust or expounding anti-Semitic beliefs a criminal offense.” The term “anti-Semitic” is another name that Confucius would want us to examine very closely; adverse criticism of Jewish individuals and groups in various contexts may prove to be perfectly reasonable – and such may be true of “reassessment of the nature and extent of German mistreatment of Jews between 1933 and 1945.”
In 1982 at the Sorbonne, under the supervision of Raymond Aron and François Furet, there was held a lengthy, non-public international symposium against R. Faurisson and “a handful of anarcho-communists” (an allusion to Pierre Guillaume, Serge Thion, Jean-Gabriel Cohn-Bendit, Jacob Assous, Claude Karnoouh, Jean-Luc Redlinski, Jean-Louis Tristani, Vincent Monteil, ...). The conclusion announced at the closing press conference, open to the public, was as follows: “despite the most erudite research” no order by Hitler to kill the Jews had been found. As for the gas chambers, not the least hint was uttered! It seems that the talk by Professor Arno Mayer had caused something of a stir (see below).
That Cavendish-Bentinck rejected the credibility of reports from Polish and Jewish underground sources is all the more understandable when one reads some of the documents cited by Breitman. Thus, for example, he reports that “a Polish underground courier who had succeeded in escaping to London” had made the following statements on Auschwitz Concentration Camp:[16]
Shlomo Venezia, self-proclaimed ex-conscript of the so-called "Sonderkommando" of Birkenau, only decided to "speak out" in 1992. I discussed his testimony in 2002, in an article entitled "Another Last-Minute Witness: Shlomo Venezia"[1]. Few sources were available at the time. Venezia acquired a certain notoriety in 1995 thanks to an interview conducted by Fabio Iacomini, entitled "The Eyewitness Testimony of Salomone Venezia, Survivor of the Sonderkommando"[2]; his "Testimony at Santa Melania, 18 January 2001, the First Day of Memory" appeared six years later[3]. In January 2002, Venezia agreed to an interview with Stefano Lorenzetto[4], republished, with a few minor changes, in the weekly magazine Gente in October 2002, under the title "I, a Jew, Cremated the Jews"[5].
“If everyone who claims to be a Holocaust survivor actually is one, who did Hitler kill?”
Arthur Butz’s devastating The Hoax of the Twentieth Century was the broadside that heralded the destruction of the evil propaganda legacy of World War II since labeled “the Holocaust.”
[5] Jan Sehn, Oświęcim-Brzezinka (Auschwitz-Birkenau) Concentration camp, Wydawnictwo Prawnicze, Warsaw 1961, p. 125.
Kranz does not shy away from shabby tricks. For example when he states that Heinrich Himmler “on 19 July 1942 ordered an acceleration of the extermination of the Jews in the Government General” (p. 220), he does not provide his readers with any kind of proof for such an order, only reference to a footnote which concerns the creation of a concentration camp for women in Lublin and the transfer of female detainees to the Lublin airfield (footnote 6). But this footnote has no connection whatsoever with the assertion that it is said to corroborate!
To this day, brick and mortar from the walls of the extant delousing chambers at the infamous Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp contain substantial amounts of Iron Blue residue, FeIII4[FeII(CN)6]3, also known as Berlin Blue or Prussian Blue. As this compound is insoluble to rain and resistant to wind and other natural forces, it is not surprising its presence has persisted the past seven decades. It is usually, but not always, quite visible to the naked eye.
Attorney Paul Quirijnen, an attorney representing Belgium’s official “anti-racism” center, which had instituted proceedings against Verbeke under a law banning Holocaust denial, grumbled, “There is a limit, which I call tolerance,” adding that “the historical truth” could not be denied.[34]
Lipstadt and other “Holocaust experts” define the “Nazi Final Solution to the Jewish Question” in these terms: “The aim of The Final Solution was the destruction of the ‘entire Jewish people’ (p. 141).” Elsewhere she is even more emphatic: “Killing all Jews—irrespective of age, location, education, profession, religious orientation, political outlook, or ethnic self-identification—was the priority in the race war that Nazi Germany conducted (p. 9).”
During the day Weimar was populated by concentration-camp inmates from Buchenwald, who were identified by a red triangle on their clothing. I conversed with a large number of them, and they were in good physical condition. During the day they participated in political studies for several hours, returning to camp by 10 o’clock. They were waiting for their official release papers so that they could file claims for compensation. Among others, I met the orderly of Ernst Thälmann, whose official duties had been to wait on the Communist leader. He described how Thälmann had been killed next to the railroad tracks during an air raid. The official version was that the Nazis had murdered him. The orderly complained that the political prisoners had too many special privileges and were not required to work.
In Italy, the deportation of Jews did not begin until after the overthrow of Mussolini by Badoglio and the German take-over of the northern half of the country. The first transport of 1,007 Italian Jews departed for Auschwitz on 18 October 1943. In November and early December of the same year two transports carrying a total of some 1,000 Jews departed from northern Italy. The deportations continued in small numbers until early August 1944. In total, more than 7,500 Jews were deported from Italy.[41] For the reason discussed in Section 2.2.3., it is highly unlikely that any of the Italian Jews except for the approximately 2,000 deported between October and December 1943 ever reached the occupied eastern territories.
Translated by Carlos W. Porter. Article previously published under the title Il dottor Mengele e i gemelli di Auschwitz. Effepi, Genoa, 2008.
MR. LOGAN: No further cross-examination. If the Tribunal please, at this time I move to strike out and disregard all the evidence presented of alleged atrocities in Indo-China on the ground that the evidence shows that these resistance troops were not lawful troops of France, they were fighting contrary to the orders of their own legally recognized government, and cannot claim rights are prisoners of war under international law but fall into the classification of guerrillas or franc-tireurs.
“As far as the use of toxic gases for homicidal purposes is concerned, concentration camp Majdanek constitutes a special case in that, here, not only were two toxic gases used as killing agents in gas chambers – the disinfestation agent Zyklon B (HCN) and carbon monoxide (CO) – but there was also a gas-van in operation. ” (p. 219)
The 103,500 prisoners in five camps near Dietersheim were supposed to be part of the labor force given by the Americans to the French for reparations. However, of these prisoners the French counted 32,640 who could not work because they were old men, women, children less than eight years old, boys age eight to 14, terminally sick or cripples. All of these prisoners were immediately released. The prisoners found at another former U.S. camp at Hechtsheim were also in lamentable condition. The skeletal prisoners at Hechtsheim dressed in rags again reminded Capt. Julien of the victims in German concentration camps. In his report, Julien called the camps “bagnes de mort lents” or slow-death camps.
The last decade of the Twentieth Century brought increasing challenges to revisionist scholars, researchers and sympathizers as existing European laws related to “Holocaust denial” were toughened and expanded to encompass greater numbers of individuals within the legal net. Especially disconcerting was the fact that several European nations soon enacted copycat legislation intended to punish and deter outspoken citizens for freely expressing their opinions on a controversial subject objectionable to Jewish organizations. These new legal measures were largely successful as a result of the determined efforts put forth by the World Jewish Congress and its affiliated agencies in their concerted attempt to outlaw “Holocaust denial.”
Obviously he and Goebbels, at least, were unaware of any program of genocide.
The number of Soviet POWs who perished at Sachsenhausen is still an unanswered question. Why were these POWs sent to a concentration camp in the first place and not to a “normal” POW camp - in their case, a “Russian camp”?
(c) publicly condoning, denying or grossly trivializing crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, directed against a group of persons or a member of such a group defined by reference to race, color, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin when the conduct is carried out in a manner likely to incite to violence or hatred against such a group or a member of such a group.
Demjanjuk authorised a statement on his behalf which was read to the German court on 13th April 2010. Included in this were the following points: ‘I have already defended myself against the accusation of the Munich prosecutor while in Israel. In Israel I was accused of being connected to Nazi crimes in Sobibor. The Israeli Supreme Court specifically recognised that this accusation of the Israeli Prosecutor could not be proven….. I feel it is not compatible with fairness and humanity that for over 35 years I have had to defend myself as a constantly chased legal victim of the Office of Special Investigation of the USA and the circles behind it, especially the World Jewish Congress and the Simon Wiesenthal Centre, which live off the Holocaust.’
This article documents that IBM and the Holocaust fails to prove IBM’s conscious involvement in the “Holocaust.”
Probably the best book on this subject is IBM and the Holocaust by Edwin Black. Black relied on a network of more than 100 researchers and translators in seven countries to help him write his well-researched book. He assembled more than 20,000 pages of documentation from 50 archives and other repositories. Black concludes that IBM was consciously involved—directly and through its subsidiaries—in the Holocaust, as well as in Nazi Germany’s military that murdered millions of other people during World War II.[23]
The drawing in question is reproduced on the following page of the book. It shows the entrance to the supposed gas chamber, with the door open (equipped with a peephole protected by a square grill, of which I have spoken); one inmate is at work at the entrance, another is dragging the body of a woman by its left hand, and the body of child by its left hand, towards the ovens. In the left-hand part of the drawing we see the edge of the last 3-muffle oven. In this drawing it is obvious that the instrument with which the above-mentioned prisoner is dragging the woman cannot be a walking cane, because the instrument in the prisoner's hand possess a crook-like curve, which, by contrast, according to Venezia, should have been hooked around the woman’s neck. The instrument is more probably a belt pulled around the woman’s neck. The belt is in fact mentioned, in various variants by other witnesses. M. Nyiszli, for example, has written:
The voice of sanity reigned again in Denmark, when on July 15, 2002 the Socialist People’s Party MP, Pernille Frahm, refused to acquiesce in a law outlawing Holocaust denial throughout the European Union, commenting that “One should be very careful about outlawing political matters that have nothing to do with racism.”[6]
Inside the main gate, one sees the train tracks going out into the distance, to a dead end, and flanked by guard towers and a loading area (Photo 13). Being familiar with the camp layout, I knew that the main objectives were Kremas 2 and 3, and that they were straight ahead of me, at the end of the tracks, about 800 meters—almost half a mile—away. Quick calculation: I can walk there in 10 minutes, and 10 minutes back, leaving 5 minutes for the chambers—or I can run. I ran.
As to point two, I can only say that President Roosevelt, as a clever player of politics and a connoisseur of American mentality, speedily steered public attention away from the domestic situation in order to fasten it on foreign policy. The way to achieve this was simple. One needed, on the one hand, to enhance the war menace overhanging the world on account of Chancellor Hitler, and, on the other hand, to create a specter by talking about the attack of the totalitarian states on the United States. The Munich pact came to President Roosevelt as a godsend. He described it as the capitulation of France and England to bellicose German militarism. As was said here: Hitler compelled Chamberlain at pistol-point. Hence, France and England had no choice and had to conclude a shameful peace.
In 1952 Thompson registered under U.S. law as a foreign agent for the Socialist Reich Party and began a campaign to support the SRP, whichwas being suppressed because of its growing electoral popularity and its neutralist position vis-à-vis the Cold War.[38] For this purpose the Committee for International Justice and the Committee for the Freedom of Major General Remer were formed. Remer, hated for his role in suppressing the July 1944 plot to overthrow Hitler, was a particular target of the Bonn authorities and of organized Jewry, and remained so for the rest of his long life. Thompson wrote to Time magazine on June 23, 1952 protesting an article on those imprisoned at Spandau that also attacked Remer and other German veterans.[39] Counsel for the committees was Edward Fleckenstein, president of the Voters’ Alliance for Americans of German Ancestry.[40] According to a report in the Newark Star-Ledger cited by the FBI, the purpose of the Committee for International Justice was to secure the release of all German military personnel jailed for “war crimes,” who were convicted on “fraudulent evidence,” and Thompson spent all of his spare time soliciting American support for the Socialist Reich Party. “Thompson is quoted as saying that he has appealed to the State Department, the United Nations, and, in fact, to about everybody.” The committees also aimed to provide humanitarian relief “to the families of the 1,045 German soldiers held as war criminals, to work for the overturning of the indictment against Remer, and to pressure the Bonn regime into halting the persecution of minority political parties. Thompson was quoted as stating that he communicated with pre-war British Fascist leader and post-war pan-European leader Sir Oswald Mosley, and with Inga Dönitz, the wife of the interned Grand Admiral and last president of united Germany, and she was a recipient of committee aid. The FBI file states that the Newark Star Ledger article described Thompson as “a mild mannered friendly young man who will patiently explain the ideology of his cause and who does not let himself be provoked into heated discussions.”[41]
Sutton did an admirable job of tracing direct and definitive links between Wall Street and the Bolsheviks. However, perhaps in his eagerness to show the common factor of “socialism” between National Socialists and Bolsheviks, and the way Wall Street backed opposing movements as part of a Hegelian dialectical strategy,[17] Sutton seems to have grasped at straws in trying to show a link between plutocrats and Nazis. Sutton repeats the myth of Ford backing of the Hitlerite party that had been in circulation since the 1920s. As early as 1922 The New York Times reported that Ford was funding the embryonic National Socialist party, and the Berliner Tageblatt called on the U.S. ambassador to investigate Ford’s supposed interference in German affairs.[18] The article in its entirety turns out to be nothing but the vaguest of rumor-mongering, of making something out of nothing at all, but it is still found to be useful by those perpetrating the myth of big-money backing for Hitler.[19] Dr. Sutton quotes the vice president of the Bavarian Diet, Auer, testifying at the trial of Hitler after the Munich Putsch in February 1923, that the Diet long had had information that Hitler was being financed by Ford. Auer alluded to a Ford agent seeking to sell tractors having been in contact with Dietrich Eckart in 1922, and that shortly after Ford money began going to Munich.[20] Having provided no evidence whatsoever, Sutton states that “these Ford funds were used by Hitler to foment the Bavarian rebellion.”[21]
Irving noted that, prior to the trial’s commencement, he had sent out to various German historians detailed photographs of Auschwitz taken by Allied reconnaissance planes in 1944, asking them to examine them and point out where the alleged gas chambers were located. With obvious disdain in his voice, Irving dryly commented that not one of them had the courage to reply.
In fact, when the Daily Mirror on 23rd March 1942 reported euthanasia by gassing in a report ﬁled by its Lisbon correspondent, it was highlighted by SOE as a “come-back” of one of their sibs, rather than a potentially true story. The Mirror report read:[42]
Although some supporters of free speech have written articles and made statements denouncing the treatment of revisionists, most remain notably silent. So-called human rights organizations like Amnesty International refuse to defend or come to the aid of Holocaust revisionists.
Perhaps France fell first, in 1991, with its loi Gayssot. Then (or slightly before) fell Switzerland, Germany, Austria, Belgium, not necessarily in that order. All these countries, and of course Israel, have capitulated to historical revisionism in the most abjectly desperate manner imaginable: they now officially, with laws, threaten people who express certain views of recent history with fines and imprisonment for so doing. Specifically, these countries, and other countries by various devices, punish “Holocaust Denial” with the mechanisms originally emplaced for dealing with rapists, murderers, thieves, and other such perpetrators of death and destruction.
“The gas chambers for the murder of the detainees were set up in a stone building, the so-called bunker, located behind the bath for men near the camp of the detainees[…] Originally, according to the plan, there were to be two chambers. The chamber in the eastern part (towards the camp of the detainees), however, was split up into two smaller ones one of which was adapted for the use of both Zyklon-B and carbon monoxide, while the other chamber was apparently not used. […] The large gas chamber, next to the two smaller ones, on the other hand, was adapted solely for the use of carbon monoxide. ” (pp. 221f).
Moreover, she gives no reason why the evidence of Franz was not accepted by the judges, while they did fulsomely accept the testimony hostile to Demjanjuk, of Otto Horn. The way Ms Sereny writes about Horn should also be noted: “a 77 year-old (in 1981) German SS sergeant who had been in charge of burning the bodies at Treblinka. He had been acquitted at the 1965 Treblinka trial in Dusseldorf, had turned State’s evidence and was described by the survivors as ‘inoffensive’. His identification of Demjanjuk as Ivan was important: he had no axe to grind.”
It is not difficult to guess why this brochure was published in 1947, before the Sachsenhausen trial: Quite obviously the German population was to be enlightened about the “crimes of the German Fascists” at Sachsenhausen. For reasons unknown to me it was purported that Feuerlein had been the author. It is therefore logical that neither the cover letter authored by Hellmut Bock nor the appendix “The Situation of the Foreign Prisoners” appears in this brochure: Both texts would have undermined the claim that Feuerlein was the author. The first sentences of the report (HB-7c, HB-8) also point to the conclusion that Feuerlein had little, if anything, to do with the genesis of the document.
[A] large number of the great newspapers and news agencies of the country have been controlled and enlisted in the greatest propaganda that the world has ever known, to manufacture sentiment in favor of war. … [And now] Congress, urged by the President and backed by the artificial sentiment, is about to declare war and engulf our country in the greatest holocaust that the world has ever known…
Eines der letzten Exponate im Holocaust Memorial Museum der Vereinigten Staaten in Washington, D.C. fasst die Bedeutung der in diesem Video dargelegten Informationen zusammen.
[7] Kulaszka, Barbara, (ed.), Did Six Million Really Die: Report of Evidence in the Canadian “False News” Trial of Ernst Zündel, Toronto: Samisdat Publishers  Ltd., 1992, pp. 362-363.
The hundreds of thousands of deaths undeniably produced at Oak Ridge enjoy not one shred of moral superiority over even the most egregious deaths attributed to Auschwitz. Obviously, Oak Ridge’s victims were civilians, whose innocence can be asserted quite as validly as can the innocence of Auschwitz’s victims. While the US Army Air Force did not choose its victims individually, nor by what ethnic group each appeared to be a member of, it did choose its targets, and in doing so made very much the same choices, en masse (Nagasaki, ironically, had long been by far Japan’s most “Catholic” city, even sporting a cathedral). But above all, killing these hundreds of thousands of people was utterly unnecessary to advancing America’s declared aim of overthrowing Japan’s government and occupying its territory. It is today well known[4] that President Truman ordered this mass murder in order to demonstrate to the world that the US had the power to annihilate it. Only after this crime did he deign to accept the Japanese surrender that by that time had lain on the table for months.
As a result of his detailed analyses of the inconsistencies and contradictions in the testimonies of alleged eyewitnesses, Grubach posed a question for Judge Matia: ‘Since [he] effectively sealed John Demjanjuk’s fate, I would like to ask him this pointed question. Since we cannot determine how many ‘gas chambers’ there were, nor their dimensions and capacities; what the exact death gas really was; what type of engine was used to generate the death gas; what the chambers were made of; where these structures were located; how long it took for the victims to be asphyxiated; how the corpses were removed from the chambers; how the bodies were buried in a lake-like area; what substance was used to burn the bodies; how the millions of unburned bones and teeth were disposed of; and how many were killed: how then can Judge Matia rule with any confidence that John Demjanjuk “contributed to the process by which thousands of Jews were murdered?”’
First, it should be noted that, besides Butz’s magisterial work encompassing some 502 pages, any number of other works, some of them shorter, many more-recent, have undertaken more or less the same goal: debunking the Holocaust Myth. And many of these have done a very good job of it, including even to this day Butz’s original, which stands as a masterpiece.
Historian Peter Longerich, for example, states in his book Holocaust that 1,274,166 Jews had been killed in the Aktion Reinhardt camps by the end of 1942. Longerich bases his statement on the Höfle telegram from January 1943 which shows that this many Jews had been sent by then to the Aktion Reinhardt camps. Longerich asserts without evidence that all Jews sent to the Aktion Reinhardt camps were murdered.[2]This article documents that contrary to what establishment historians state, the Aktion Reinhardt camps were actually transit camps rather than extermination camps.
The subject of the Holocaust was naturally raised by Bollinger, who remarked,
Snyder relies on these estimates extensively. For example, his overall Holocaust death toll among Jews is entirely based on this methodology. (On the other hand, his reliance on the Tyas-Witte decode, and Einsatzgruppen reports, is an example of body count methods, which goes to show that even these methods raise questions.) On the subject of the Holodomor, Snyder uses a total of three million, which is derived, as are all figures on the Ukrainian famine, from population balance methods, and then goes on to rebuke the Ukrainian president for claiming ten million victims of the Soviet induced famines, a total, however, which is also based on population balance methods. In this way, Professor Snyder arrogates to himself an authority on statistical methology that certainly deserves greater analysis than that given here. Yet the wide variance of numbers among estimates for the Ukrainian famine simply underscores how inexact and imprecise population balance methods can be.
Incidentally, Ernst Heinrich Freiherr von Weizsäcker, a traitor and anti-Hitler conspirator, served as State Secretary at the Foreign Office from 1938 to 1943. Together with Admiral Wilhelm Canaris and General Ludwig Beck, Mr. Weizsäcker was a leader of the “anti-war” group in the German government. The relevance of these details will become clear as we proceed, since Weizsäcker and Canaris may have originated and/or fabricated the ‘Gleiwitz Incident’ report as documented in the White Book.[1] In the light of the evidence I have researched, this is the most compelling circumstantial case thus far.
As I have shown in another study, on 17 and 18 July 1942, two Jewish transports arrived at Auschwitz from the Dutch camp of Westerbork and one from Slovakia. Based on the camp Stärkebuch, the first transport arrived not earlier than 8:00PM on the 16th and not later than 6:00AM on the 17th; the other two arrived not before 8:00PM on the 17th and not later than 6:00AM on the 18th. According to Himmler’s diary he landed at Kattowitz airport at 3:15PM on the 17th; therefore, he could not have seen the first transport of Dutch Jews, who were allegedly gassed before 6:00AM. His visit to Auschwitz was concluded at 8:00PM with a dinner at the officers’ mess. After dinner, Himmler was accompanied to Kattowitz, where he was lodged for the night by Gauleiter Bracht. On the morning of the 18th, at 9:00AM he was still in Bracht’s house, and only got to Auschwitz after breakfast. For this reason, he could not even have seen the other two transports of Jews, which were allegedly/presumably gassed between 8:00PM on the 17th and 6:00AM on the 18th[98]. For this reason, Himmler could in no event have been present at a gassing of Jews.
As for the number of Jews deported to the Russian interior just prior to the outbreak of the war some witnesses mention figures considerably higher than 1,771. According to a book published in 1947 by Riga Jew Max Kaufmann some 5,000 Latvian Jews were deported by the Soviet authorities to the Russian interior on 14 June 1941.[122] Israeli Holocaust historian Dov Levin informs us that the number of people that the Soviets managed to arrest and deport amounted to 34,250. the nationalities of 20,000 of these forced deportees are known: 14,000 were Latvians, 5,000 Jews and the rest other minorities (mainly Poles).[123] If 25% of the identified deportees were Jews, then it seems justifiable to assume that this ratio applied also to the total number of deportees, which would mean that the number of Jews deported by the Soviets in June 1941 may have amounted to some (34,250 x 0.25 =) 8,562, rounded off downward to 8,500. The real number may have been lower but may also have been slightly higher: Levin mentions estimates of 10,000 or more.[124] The figure mentioned by Anders and Dubrovskis (1,771) possibly refers to the deportations on 14 June 1941 alone, although as Levin points out the deportations were carried out over a period of some weeks. It is clear that the Anders-Dubrovskis figure of 78,000 remaining Jews must be reduced by (8,500 - 1,771 =) 6,729 to 71,271.
Auschwitz is of particular importance to the narrative, given its centrality in the Holocaust and the large number of survivors. There are a number of recorded witness statements and memoirs, but unfortunately virtually all of them contain serious flaws. Problems with accounts by those such as Wiesel, Vrba, Nyiszli, Frankl, Tauber, Mueller, and others have been well documented—I would refer the reader to Rudolf’s Lectures on the Holocaust, Mattogno’s Bunkers of Auschwitz, or my own book Debating the Holocaust.
According to the Pope’s pronouncement, the Auschwitz State Museum and the Israel’s Yad Vashem Memorial to the Holocaust have already committed an “intolerable act.” They down-sized the number of people allegedly killed at Auschwitz from 4 million to 1.1 million. How come Pope Benedict did not specifically condemn them for their “intolerable act” of “minimizing the Holocaust?”
The forensic evidence refutes the possibility of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. Reports, articles, testimony and videos from Robert Faurisson, Fred Leuchter, Walter Lüftl, Germar Rudolf, Friedrich Paul Berg, Dr. William B. Lindsey, Carlo Mattogno, John C. Ball, Richard Krege and David Cole have conclusively shown that there were no homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau during World War II. The books The Real Case for Auschwitz by Carlo Mattogno[12] and The Chemistry of Auschwitz by Germar Rudolf[13] are probably the best (least biased) books for anyone wanting to make a thorough study of this subject. They are not available from Amazon; they must be acquired directly from the publisher, Castle Hill Publishers.
In other words, the Soviet forensic investigations only proved that many people (Jews and non-Jews) had indeed died in German captivity, and that the Germans had indeed carried out executions – something no serious revisionist has ever disputed. They did not produce a shred of evidence for the large-scale massacres claimed by Soviet propagandists, Jewish and German Holocaust historians and Danish Sanskrit scholars.
Fundamentally, the Shoah has become holy writ whose sanctity is assured by an all-powerful Thought Police which exercises sway over politicians, academe, the media, etc. Its task is to track down and suppress manifestations of heresy. In Europe, which lacks a First Amendment [to the Constitution of the United States], it has obtained the passage of legislation to stifle freedom of expression in a number of countries. While the EU Human Rights Guidelines on Freedom of Expression Online and Offline trumpets urbi et orbi that: “Freedom of opinion and expression are fundamental rights of every human being,” it is a dead letter as far as the Shoah is concerned.[13]
Because German forces were always limited and always needed at the front, German military authorities were all the more fearful of the disruptions partisans could cause. Consequently, the Einsatzgruppen and German Army officers took severe measures against partisan activity in the Soviet Union. This resulted in the Einsatzgruppen and the German military engaging in mass killings of partisans, including the execution of many civilians. However, the Einsatzgruppen did not pursue the additional purpose of committing genocide against Soviet Jewry.[28]
Was that not a rather sudden conclusion? It was not until September 16th that the NA’s own forensic science lab confirmed this “finding.”[5]
We have shown that the gassing technology described in the sources on the supposed homicidal gas chamber at Sachsenhausen, which orthodox Holocaust historians are forced to explain as a mysterious and inexplicable anomaly, has a natural and well-documented explanation in the context of the redesign of the Sachsenhausen delousing chambers. As this conversion took place in mid-1944, while the homicidal gas chamber is said to have come into operation in 1943 or earlier, the system described in the Soviet technical report cannot be that used in the alleged homicidal gas chamber.[26]
[12] Mattogno, Carlo, The Real Case for Auschwitz: Robert van Pelt’s Evidence from the Irving Trial Critically Reviewed, 2nd ed., Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2015 https://shop.codoh.com/book/the-real-case-for-auschwitz-en/389/.
[18] Rudolf, Germar, The Rudolf Report: Expert Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz, Washington, D.C., The Barnes Review, 2011, p. 111.
She always states, however, that the registered inmates were admitted into the camp “after a selection,” implying that some inmates might have been selected not to get registered. These entries are probably the only ones in her entire book which come close to being honest, together with a few exotic ones about which she evidently didn’t dare make gassing speculation for lack of any documentary evidence or even anecdotal hints by self-proclaimed witnesses (Aug. 27: 82 registered deportees from Luxemburg; Nov. 18: 30 registered deportees of unknown origin).[19]
Weber added this astute observation about Soviet Communist use of the Holocaust mythology: “An essential objective of this propaganda effort is the demonstration that in spite of the obvious and continued oppressiveness of the Soviet empire, a German victory would have meant a worse life. The ‘Holocaust’ material thus plays an essential role in the pacification of the many nations and ethnic groups of the Soviet empire, including a number of lands which fought as sovereign states on the side of Germany during the titanic struggle against Communism during 1941-1945: Hungary, Rumania, Bulgaria and Slovakia. The material is continually used as a justification to the outside world for the retention of Eastern Europe in the Soviet empire. A further advantage to the Soviet empire from stressing the ‘Holocaust’ material lies in its appeal to the Jewish minorities in various lands, especially in the United States.”[59]
Le Figaro reported in an article entitled “We Should Not Resemble Them”: “In certain camps for German prisoners of war…. living skeletons may be seen, almost like those in German concentration camps, and deaths from undernourishment are numerous. We learn that prisoners have been savagely and systematically beaten and that some have been employed in removing mines without protection equipment so that they have been condemned to die sooner or later.”[30]
A. I showed the disinfection chambers to the Minister of the interior and to a certain Mr. Seeling. I also paid a second visit to Sachsenhausen about July 1944 when I had a gas chamber altered from working on prussic acid to working on "Original."[4]
The religious doubts of McAfee Brown, Cargas and Lombardi can be summarized as follows. It is almost inconceivable that a religion which is directly inspired by God could be responsible for something as monstrous as the Holocaust, the meticulously planned mass murder of millions of Jews. But the Holocaust did occur, and Christendom is largely responsible for it. Hence, Christianity may not be inspired by a morally perfect, omnipotent Being, or this Supreme Being may not even exist.
Stäglich interpreted matters differently. On the basis of his experience and expertise serving as a judge in the Superior Court, Stäglich thoroughly scrutinized the evidence relating to homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz concentration camp and arrived at the conclusion that mass murder on the scale claimed at Nuremberg was technically and logistically impossible. Exasperated and unable to charge Stäglich under laws enacted by the Federal Republic of Germany, prosecutors eventually discovered a legal precedent to charge him under provisions contained in an old law enacted during the Third Reich era. As a consequence, the former German judge was deprived of his doctorate, his book confiscated and banned, and all existing copies were consigned to the flames. The printing plates were ordered destroyed by the court.
Subsequently, however, Zyklon B was delivered to the alleged gas chambers using ambulances bearing Red Cross symbols, which at the camp were colloquially called “sankas” (Sanitätskraftwagen). The inmates of the disinfestation commando took four or five crates from the theater building and brought them in a wheelbarrow to the ‘Kanada I’ area, where they were loaded into an ambulance car. Setkiewicz informs us:
By everyone's account, most of the victims were killed before the United States and Britain welcomed the Soviet Union as their ally in June 1941. Yet by then, the evidence concerning at least very widespread Communist killings was available to anyone willing to listen.
Following the ‘World Conference of Jews’ in 1933, the American delegate, leading Zionist, Samuel Untermeyer, addressed the American nation on WABC radio with regard to Germany and called for ‘the nations of the earth’ to ‘make common cause against the… slaughter, starvation and annihilation, by a country that has reverted to barbarism, of its own innocent and defenseless citizens without rhyme, reason or excuse…’ He went on to describe the Nazis’ ‘cold-bloodedly planned and already partially executed campaign for the extermination of a proud, gentle, law-abiding people’ and called for a ‘holy war’ against a German nation which was, in his words, ‘a veritable hell of cruel and savage beasts.’[15] Untermeyer’s purposely alarmist speech was a continuation of similar propaganda and a follow-up on statements and mass demonstrations made by the World Jewish Congress in the same year, as evidenced by a Daily Express article written by a ‘special political correspondent’, which began with the following sentence. ‘All Israel is uniting in wrath against the Nazi onslaught on the Jews in Germany.’ Its headline was ‘Judea declares war on Germany!’ [16]
“In the months from September to November 1941, the Wehrmacht transported at least thirteen thousand Soviet prisoners-of-war to Oranienburg, where the Concentration Camps´ Inspectorate organized the entire operation for the murder of Soviet prisoners-of-war. More than ten thousand of these were murdered within only ten weeks in an automated ´head shot´ facility.”
Defenders of the Holocaust story have sometimes used forensic archaeologist Dr. Caroline Sturdy Colls and her limited excavation work at Treblinka to prove that Treblinka was an extermination camp. An analysis of her work shows that she fails to prove that Treblinka was an extermination camp.[16]
When, if, and as the “Neue Studien” comes out in English, this work will gain considerable value for those whose interests and abilities don’t lead them to delve into German-language disquisitions by the centurions of the Holocaust Legend. In the meantime, it is something to “lay in” against that day, and to peruse with close attention for those whose interests center on the weakness of the defense of the Holocaust Legend through junket-colloquia in the former capital of the Third Reich.
In 1999 the German holocaust historian Christian Gerlach had his voluminous doctoral dissertation on policies of forced labor and (alleged) extermination in German-occupied western Belarus published under the title Kalkulierte Morde (Calculated Murders). In this the camp at Maly Trostenets is discussed in a brief subchapter on “death camps” in Belarus:
The use of pseudonyms by revisionists has been frequently condemned by its detractors. Deborah Lipstadt used her typical derogatory tone with regard to pseudonyms throughout her Denying the Holocaust. She took aim at Richard Harwood and the original claim that he was with the University of London. For Lipstadt, the attempts to "camouflage" Harwood's identity was a matter of hiding his association with the British National Front.[13]
With regards to all this, Venezia tells us absolutely nothing: from his eyewitness testimony; we learn neither how the supposed Zyklon B introduction devices were designed, how many of them there were, how they were employed, or even if they really existed! And judging from the fact that, according to him, the Zyklon B was simply "thrown on the floor" inside the gas chamber—as we shall see below—he knows nothing whatever about such devices.
Also kept hidden from the general public is the fact that during the war neither Churchill, Eden, Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Charles de Gaulle nor Stalin cared to mention the “gas chambers” or “gas vans” in any statement or writing. Those among them who, years after the end of the conflict, wrote their war memoirs also kept quiet on the subject. Pope Pius XII, although even more hostile towards Hitler than towards Stalin, did likewise (cf. Robert Faurisson, Pope Pius XII’s Revisionism, Historical Review Press, Uckfield, England, 2006; preface at http://robertfaurisson.blogspot.it/2006/05/preface-to-pope-pius-xiis-revisionism.html).
“[During the war] my parents [were evacuated and] were in Hameln and I somehow got the news that they were there. Since I had my motorcycle, I decided to drive there – I even had somebody riding on the back of the motorcycle with me. And then on the way back, we drove through Thuringia. I don’t know what town it was, as I didn’t take notice of it. But, anyway, we made a stop there and the place was stinking: ’What is that smell?’ ’Over there is a concentration camp, that’s where the corpses are being burned, where soap is being made from the Jews.’ In the concentration camps, [there were] Jews, and not only Jews. There were also communists. And there were also some in our town who disappeared. There were some who disappeared who were sick. That [all] was managed by the party. The party had them disappear.” (p. 208)
Although the jury heard abundant evidence of Ford’s ignorance, it heard no evidence proving his anarchism. The jury found that Ford had been libeled. However, the jury awarded Ford only six cents in damages. When newspapers and magazines reported on Ford’s lack of knowledge, Ford said regarding newspapers, “I rarely read anything else except the headlines.” In a private interview with a reporter, Ford said, “I don’t like to read books; they muss up my mind.” Ford was perfectly content to admit that he was so focused on work that he had almost no time left for book learning.[18]
Joining the campaign to stifle Gollnisch, the Paris-based International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism, [LICRA] demanded that the European Parliament take action against Gollnisch. In a letter to Josep Borrell, parliament president, LICRA President Patrick Graubert urged the parliament to enforce sanctions against Gollnisch “for his revisionist comments which place in doubt the historical veracity of the existence of the gas chambers.”[15]
Arthur R. Butz[1], then a professor of electrical engineering at Northwestern University, put the myth of what had only recently then acquired the name “Holocaust” to rest in 1976, when he published, with that damn printing press again, The Hoax of the Twentieth Century: The Case against the Presumed Extermination of European Jewry. Butz at the time was 44 years old, while Valla was 33 when his jeremiad came out. Valla at the time was an ordained priest.
Rassinier wrote extensively about his own experiences and observations in the German camps. He also began to research the entire issue of German genocide against Jews during the war. Rassinier concluded that the death toll in the camps was far lower than alleged. He also concluded that the deaths in the camps were not caused by a German program of genocide,[24] but rather primarily by the poor conditions of the camps attributable to the economic collapse of Germany during a devastating war. Rassinier had nothing to gain personally from taking his unpopular position, and after suffering greatly in the German concentration camps, he then suffered intense persecution in postwar France for his courageous writings after the war.
Flabbergasted by Stelzner’s response, Irving’s advocate reminded the judge of his own ruling, which had forbid Rudolf to testify on the subject of the gas chambers in the first place!
According to Lipstadt, Holocaust revisionism constitutes a “clear and present danger” and a “serious threat” (p. xi, also p. 29) that can cause “terrible harm” (p. xix). At that early point in her book, she does not specify what revisionism is a danger or threat to, nor what harm it can do, as she does not support her claim. But she knows that revisionists “must be taken seriously,” because “Far more than the history of the Holocaust is at stake” (p. 17). The reader is again left to speculate what is at stake, as Lipstadt does not elaborate. Later in her book, however, she gives us some clues, and I will therefore return to this farther below.
And that is not all. For another thing that happens often and by now catches our eye is the fact mass murder in flaming pits or crematories is not the only way the Germans choose to dispatch the undesirable. Those who commit actual infractions are curiously handled individually and in the old-fashioned way: by hanging! The Czech Jew who was hanged for improper dental practices is apparently not an anomaly. And we know this because Elie tells us about gallows erected in the center of the camp for other such executions. And these events are quite formal. He describes one that occurs while all ten thousand prisoners are at roll-call. The gate to the camp is opened and they find themselves surrounded by a “section” of SS, one soldier every three paces.[11] The hanging concerns a youth from Warsaw accused of stealing. He must now die as a warning and example, but also because it’s the law. Apparently there is a semblance of law even in a concentration camp. Despite Elie telling us the youth has spent three years in various camps, he is nevertheless described as “strong,” and “well-built.” And it is odd, if anything any longer can be, that Elie is overwhelmed by the sight of this one impending death by hanging when he says he is otherwise no longer troubled by the thousands who die daily at Auschwitz and Birkenau in the crematory ovens. And his reason is a matter of speculation, but I infer it is because aside from the one incident of the flaming pits, he does not see these thousands of deaths but only imagines them. By contrast, the true sight of someone who is to hang is more poignant and real. And the odd twist is that even after the youth is able to shout an appeal for liberty and a curse upon Germany, following the execution, the assembly is nevertheless commanded to bare and cover their heads as a gesture of respect. Then the prisoners are all made to pass by the dead body and look at the hanged youth full in the face, to see his dimmed eyes and lolling tongue, as if this was to make a special impression when thousands were dying every day by more gruesome means for no particular infraction.
[20] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, p. 352.
In fact, although more than 2,000 rumours have been disseminated in the last year, we have no evidence that the enemy have ever traced any of them back to a British whispering organisation. Those that have been denied or otherwise referred to have, as far as we know, been attributed to other sources.”
By opening the door of the “gas chamber” with its blocked exhaust ducts, a lethal mixture of gas would have flowed out into the next room (in the drawings “Vorraum”, vestibule) and would have spread out all over the basement and via the elevator shaft into the furnace room. As a precautionary measure, and in order to avoid the gas mixture entering the three rooms of the former Leichenkeller 3 (Cubicles X, Y and Z in Document 39), it would have been necessary to close this door (but it was not gastight). How to eliminate the gas pocket of the vapors of hydrogen cyanide? The most rational system would have been this:
Whatever your answer, no need to speculate on how our government would respond as we have evidence from another covert action event. In 2014, Udo Ulfkotte, a German journalist who at one time worked as an editor at one of Germany’s leading newspapers, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, published a memoir in which he claimed virtually the entire German press corps was on the payroll of the CIA. He had personal knowledge of this as he himself had been a beneficiary of CIA largesse.
What the Sobibor archeologists say fits the pattern of Dawkins’s description of religious fundamentalism. These Holocaust fundamentalists regard the extermination process as “historically established,” and it does not need to proven by forensic investigations. The extermination process is an axiom—it is not the end product of scientific evidence. Their belief in the extermination process needs no scientific evidence to prove it, and they simply refuse to honestly evaluate the Revisionist critique of the traditional Holocaust story.
Sack’s description of ‘Holocaust deniers’ at a 2001 conference of the Institute for Historical Review, to which he was invited to speak, was that,
By the late 1950s, Holocaust revisionism was still very much affected by the childhood diseases typical of pioneer criticism. Most seriously, many texts were unfortunately marked by a lack of exact references in accordance with standard scientific criteria. Also lacking is a focus on official reports and material deriving from court proceedings, as well as the emerging Holocaust historiography (Reitlinger, Hilberg, Poliakov); rather, most revisionist texts from this period discuss the extermination allegations as presented by the media and a relatively small number of published witness testimonies.
News Weekly on 10th November 1990 published shocking information about an earlier ‘Nazi war crimes case’ under the heading ‘False evidence claim in US extradition case’. The report began: ‘There is a growing body of evidence that an alleged war criminal, Andrija Artukovic, was extradited from the US to Yugoslavia in 1986 on charges of massacres that never occurred. The uncorroborated evidence used by the American Office of Special Investigations has been challenged by four experts, and the OSI is now being investigated by the Justice Department’s Office of Professional Responsibility over its handling of the case.’
As I have already indicated, there was not much space in the gas chambers. People were smothered simply by overcrowding. The motor which generated the gas in the new chambers was defective, and so the helpless victims had to suffer for hours on end before they died. Satan himself could not have devised a more fiendish torture. When the chambers were opened again, many of the victims were only half dead and had to be finished off with rifle butts, bullets or powerful kicks.
Trump's supporters regard him and his agenda as the last chance for the survival of the America that they always knew and cherished. If Trump's supporters are forced to choose between Trump and the Holocaust, or between saving their country and properly observing the so-called lessons of the Holocaust, public reverence for the Holocaust will certainly suffer for it.
When the case came to trial, witnesses for Artukovic were not allowed to describe what they considered proof that the Yugoslav evidence was fraudulent.
MR. LOGAN: If the Tribunal please, I think I have been patient about this. I think we ought to have a direction and make this witness answer these questions.
As already mentioned, the Trostenets eyewitness Isak Grünberg speaks of transports arriving from Auschwitz, and also hints at transports from Theresienstadt via Treblinka. The same witness as well as a member of the SS-Bauleitung in Smolensk confirm that Polish Jews were detained at Trostenets. Another witness, Ernst Schlesinger, speaks of transports arriving with Jews from Poland and France (cf. §2.6.). The Jewish partisan leader Hersh Smolar (Smoliar), who operated in the Minsk area and had at his disposal a wide network of informants, including Jews working at the Minsk railway station, writes with regard to the first half of 1943 that "large parties of Jews from Warsaw, Paris and Prague were brought to the vicinity of Minsk and Trostenitz where they were annihilated."[64] H.G. Adler mentions transports from Holland and Luxembourg in his description of Trostenets, without, however, providing a source for this assertion (§2.4.). Belarusian-Jewish writer Emanuil Joffe contends that "tens of thousands of Jews from Germany, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Poland, France, Holland, Hungary, and, possibly other European countries" met their death at Trostenets.[65]
As a matter of fact, the epidemics of typhus (spotted fever) which had occurred in fall 1941 prompted the camp administration to order the construction of the new crematorium as early as winter 1941/42. This work only required four months; the crematorium was put into operation in the beginning of May 1942. As that winter had been particularly harsh, the experts in Moscow presumably thought that it would not have been possible to perform such a task within so short a time and therefore decided to “correct” the date.
[26] Piper, Franciszek, Auschwitz: How Many Perished, Krakow, 1994, p. 37.
This paper introduces a series of revisionist papers scrutinizing the flawed approach with which the Israeli Holocaust Remembrance Museum Yad Vashem is collecting the names (and so, numbers) of Jews who are said to have died in “the Holocaust.” In addition, it gives a brief overview of what Yad Vashem is saying about it, in fact is admitting, about it on their own website.
A recent trend has emerged in which various ethnic groups seek equal status and recognition under laws prohibiting the denial of genocide. Jewish groups such as the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) registered their displeasure over such attempts based upon their belief that such recognition will “diminish the uniqueness of the Holocaust.”
The operation of wiping out the traces and eliminating the bodies had direct implications, in part, upon the development of negationism, and, in part, upon the phenomena of memory. Eliminating the traces was equivalent to denying the victim their right to burial and relegating them to oblivion. On the other hand, negationism had already been committed through the process of "Vernichtung,” of reducing to a nullity and annihilating all traces of the dead, without precedence in the history of genocide.[6]
Kula was working in the inmate metalworking shop at Auschwitz, about whose activities a vast number of documents survived the war. No document about the creation of columns as described by Kula is among them, though. In fact, there is neither any material nor documentary evidence that these columns ever existed.[8] Kula himself must have anti­cipated this objection, because in the same testimony he claimed that work done for the crematoria were not registered presumably due to their alleged secret, criminal auspices. This, too, is untrue, as there is an abundance of work orders for items needed for the crematoria.[9]
It would be impossible to discuss every eyewitness account of the Holocaust story. To illustrate the unreliability of eyewitness accounts of the so-called Holocaust, I will analyze the eyewitness accounts of probably its three most-famous survivors: Elie Wiesel, Simon Wiesenthal and Viktor Frankl.
“Yehuda Bauer ... said he warned his friend Wiesenthal, who died in 2005, about spreading the false notion that the Holocaust claimed 11 million victims – 6 million Jews and 5 million non-Jews.
The Holocaust story eliminates any comparison of Ketziot or Gaza to the concentration camps they indeed are. It memorializes the resistance of Jews in the ghettos of Europe while steadfastly denying any comparison with the resistance of Palestinians in Hebron and throughout the West Bank. It allows claims that this year’s Hanukah Massacre in Gaza, with a kill ratio of 100 to one, was a “proportionate response” to Palestinian resistance to unending occupation.
As one might expect, Rollins proves to be no less a contrarian when turning his sights on what he calls “the sacred cow” of the Holocaust: “To many people, the six million figure is not a fact, although they call it that; rather it is an article of faith, believed in not because of compelling evidence in its support, but because of compelling psychological reasons.” Though the revisionist community has been saying this for years, it is refreshing to hear this perspective from an outsider like Rollins. To him, the Holocaust is a complex of social mythologies whose roots run as deep as any other cultural preoccupation. It is easy, then, to see why he regards the traditional tale with such suspicion. He recognizes that any mythology which requires such reflexive orthodoxy has to be propped up by a powerful vested interest, what he calls an “inventor”: “Morality…is a myth invented to promote the interests/desires/purposes of the inventors. Morality is a device for controlling the gullible with words.”
A Jew had been selected by the Germans to function as a supposed “bath attendant.” He stood at the entrance of the building housing the chambers and urged everyone to hurry inside before the water got cold. What irony! Amidst shouts and blows, the people were chased into the chambers.
One of the leading books by mainstream historians on the gas chamber question, the 1993 collective tome Nazi Mass Murder, states on page 202:[18]
Richard J. Evans was a professor of Modern History at Cambridge University and a specialist in modern German history. The verdict in the case holds that Evans’s expert report in David Irving’s 2000 libel suit against Deborah Lipstadt proves Irving’s intentional deceptions as to the history of which Irving has written. This article reviews faults in Evans’s findings regarding two historical subjects: the “Holocaust” and the 1945 bombing of Dresden, Germany.
No one has been able to find a single structure that could have been an authentic homicidal gas chamber. Not a single homicidal gas van, either. For the world’s greatest crime, the prosecution can produce no forensic examination of the weapon. Among the post-mortems not one attests to death by gassing. The alleged witnesses of “gassings” whom revisionists have been able to subject to a precise and public cross-examination in court have been unmasked. The execution gas chambers shown to tourists have been shown to be mere Potemkin-Village-like fakes. The massacres attributed to the Einsatzgruppen have left not one common grave approaching the dimensions of the mass graves in Katyn Forest (4,255 corpses counted) – a proven crime, that slaughter, and the culprits of which were our Soviet allies.
“In those parts of the register of the camp’s motor pool [Fahrbereitschaft] which have been preserved (for the period of 30 May to 17 August 1943) 591 trips of this type of vehicle [presumably ambulances] are logged. It is likely that the majority of them was for purposes unrelated to the delivery of Zyklon to the gas chambers: [trips to] subcamps for the supply of medicines for dispensaries located there, for the transport of prisoners’ corpses (Totentransport) to Katowice or other neighboring cities. The majority of records (324), however, concern trips within the camp area (Lagerbereich), made mostly on behalf of the SS hospital. Unfortunately, it does not contain any information on the transport of Zyklon.
It is quite true that some of the people who promote Holocaust revisionism are National Socialists, but a great many are not. [Among the many prominent names cited by Turner are French socialist and anti-Nazi Paul Rassinier, Robert Faurisson, Michael Hoffman II, Roger Garaudy, Fred Leuchter, and David Cole.]
Carlo Mattogno writes in regard to Nyiszli: “It is impossible to ascribe good faith to this ‘eyewitness,’ who was and remains a mere impostor. In consequence, the essential eyewitness testimony of Dr. Mengele’s alleged crimes at Auschwitz crumbles inexorably, and the rest of the legend along with it.”[32]
The reasoning is worthy of a paranoiac. Even the claim that “overt Holocaust deniers” were invited to Spencer's NPI conference seems to be false. As evidence, Lipstadt links to Adam Gabbatt's report on the conference for the Guardian. Gabbatt does not really claim that anybody, much less a speaker at the conference, actually denied the Holocaust. All that Gabbatt says is that he encountered several obscure members of the audience who expressed “doubts” about the Holocaust when questioned. Sorry to say, these were not “overt Holocaust Deniers,” much less had they been invited to the conference as overt Holocaust Deniers: these were people who anonymously admitted having doubts about the Holocaust when questioned. The one that Gabbatt quotes, called Mack, even opines that the Holocaust might be true because it seems logical, given Jewish behavior. (A. Gabbatt, Guardian, 21 November 2016)
The makeshift freight elevator in Crematorium II was actually rather small and had a permissible maximum load of just 300 kg, or 5 to 6 corpses. In Crematorium II, an elevator with a higher maximum load may have been installed, but even that could not carry more than maybe 20 corpses at a time.[4] 50 corpses is a totally imaginary number.
By way of a footnote in the footnote[30] Reitlinger finally manages to reveal the source of this information, a letter addressed to him, together with some photographs, by “Mr. Joseph Zigman, Information Services Division, Office of the US High Commissioner, Germany”. He does not disclose the date of the letter. We have found this reference to Reitlinger in an article by German Holocaust historian Mathias Beer[31]. Even to Beer, the idea that the euthanasia action at Mogilev should have been filmed seemed apparently so outlandish that instead of an “amateur film” he prefers speaking of “negatives” – a minor cosmetic change meant to make the improbable a trifle less improbable.
Jewish prosecutors often used torture to help convict the German defendants at Nuremberg and other postwar trials. A leading example of the use of torture to obtain evidence is the confession of Rudolf Höss, a wartime commandant at Auschwitz. Höss’s testimony at the IMT was the key evidence presented of a German extermination program. Höss said that more than 2.5 million people were exterminated in the Auschwitz gas chambers, and that another 500,000 inmates had died there of other causes.[16] No defender of the Holocaust story today accepts these inflated figures, and other key portions of Höss’s testimony at the IMT are widely acknowledged to be untrue.
“The exact number of people killed during the Holocaust remains unknown. Some scholars have suggested a figure of around 11 million. Of these, it is estimated that approximately six million Jews were killed but the number of Roma, Sinti, disabled people, political prisoners and others killed cannot be estimated with complete certain[t]y.”
On August 23, 1939, Sir Horace Wilson, Chamberlain’s closest advisor, went to American Ambassador Joseph Kennedy with an urgent appeal from Chamberlain to President Roosevelt. Regretting that Britain had unequivocally obligated itself to Poland in case of war, Chamberlain now turned to Roosevelt as a last hope for peace. Kennedy telephoned the State Department and stated: “The British want one thing from us and one thing only, namely that we put pressure on the Poles. They felt that they could not, given their obligations, do anything of this sort but that we could.”
“Buchenwald was the home of Ilse Koch, wife of the commandant. She was known as the ‘bitch of Buchenwald,’ an insult to every dog who ever lived. She had her inmates tattooed in various designs, then had them killed, then skinned and their hides tanned to make book bindings, lamp shades, and other articles. I saw these things! One story has it that she enjoyed sexual intercourse with her victims – this may be apocryphal. These ‘meat hooks’ were used on the bodies of humans!”
Today, of course, we have anti-Holocaust denial laws, hate crime laws, etc. The parallels are troubling.
Is it possible that the "resettlement" of the Jews arriving at Trostenets indeed meant resettlement? According to the witness Hans Munz, who was deported from Theresienstadt in June 1942, the arrivals at Trostenets were told that they would be brought to new workplaces.[55] In the testimony of "an unknown deportee from Vienna" we read that the deportees remaining at Trostenets were told that their relatives who had arrived with them "were brought to other estates, of which there were many in the vicinity".[56] The anonymous testimony continues:
Firstly, we do not know who the source for the official White Book report is for this purported event. There is an entry in the White Book for 31 August 1939 which is attributed to the police president of Gleiwitz. There is a problem with this, however. The police president at the time was a certain Mr. Schade, and he was murdered in a postwar Polish camp after his IMT (International Military Tribunal) interrogation in 1945.[2] He was never cross-examined during the trial,[3] so his testimony to confirm that he is the actual source will not be had. It is possible that this man was in cahoots with the SS men who appeared at the transmitter station to conduct a brief (and seemingly innocent) radio exercise over the weather channel and who then promptly left. (More about them later). Did Mr. Schade (have to) take a vow of silence in this regard? If this is the case, then the report as well as the broadcast about a supposed “shootout and fatal wounding” at the station were SS fabrications. In any case, they were bogus. Nothing happened and the fake report was planted to deceitfully implicate Poland in a scuffle and fatal shootout at the station, an event and death which never happened but which the Allies claimed did happen. Put simply, this was a fictitious report and broadcast that ultimately backfired on the SS and was in fact used against them with all kinds of lurid details added post facto by the Allies. This is a possible explanation. But there is another possible explanation. What if these SS men were not actually SS men, but imposters with fake credentials? Without Schade’s honest account, we will likely never know if either of these explanations is correct.
The dispute between Holocaust orthodoxy and revisionism is no mere trifle of history. It is a matter of great importance. The conventional Holocaust story is so widely accepted as self-evidently true, and as the epitome of evil, that most people cannot conceive of it being wrong to any substantial degree. If, therefore, it is shown to be wrong, or at least deeply flawed, then a central pillar of our understanding of history is threatened. Our simplistic notions of good and evil would have to be reexamined. Those who sustain and promote the traditional story today—including many prominent and wealthy Jews, their paid assistants, and the dwindling number of Jewish survivors—would suffer a serious erosion of credibility. And we might begin to question other received truths promoted by the powers that be. These facts have huge implications in many areas of contemporary life.
Revisionist arguments with regard to the Holocaust are being criminalized in country after country after country in Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and the laws have already been drawn up to criminalize revisionist arguments here in America. And it’s done by people who are sincere.’”
This deceptive narration of the Dachau segment is an important part of the falsehoods in the Nuremberg trials film evidence center piece.
“But nobody knew that [the Jews were being systematically murdered]. Nobody knew that because when my sister was deported from Theresienstadt to Auschwitz, first of all, we didn’t know it was Auschwitz. Still I’m sure certain things must have been known. When the Germans say they never heard anything, that’s a lie. One knew Dachau was a concentration camp. One knew they killed people. One knew that Sachsenhausen was a concentration camp. One knew about Buchenwald and about quite a lot of them. So, if someone said they didn’t know anything about it, that’s a lie. But if they say they did not particularly know that the Jews were murdered by the millions in Poland, that I accept. Even so, it is very difficult to accept.” (p. 107)
The present article is intended to summarize the information obtained at Bletchley Park on events in Auschwitz Concentration Camp. Despite Hinsley's unambiguous statement, British Intelligence Service information continues to give rise to a multiplicity of interpretations and speculation, just as before. At the same time, the question of what the British "knew about the Holocaust" always takes priority over everything else.
So, the poison was neither administered using the false showerheads, as the congressional report claimed, nor using the ventilation system, as the U.S. documentary that was shown during the Nuremberg Tribunal suggested. But how else could it have been done? Here is the story as we are told today:
“The Holocaust” is widely known as the murder of six million Jews by Nazi Germany, many if not most of them in gas chambers deceptively disguised as shower rooms.
As anti-Semitic as Hitler was, it is surprising how lightly the Jews get off. They are banned from citizenship, and therefore from any role in government or the press. Recent (since August 1914) Jewish immigrants, like all immigrants, must leave. And the National Socialist view of religious freedom “fights against the Jewish materialist spirit” (24). But no threats to imprison or kill Jews. Longtime Jewish residents can stay in the country. No confiscation of wealth, with the stated exceptions. And certainly nothing that sounds like a looming ‘Holocaust.’
The second two trenches [excavation sites], however, revealed a brick wall and foundation. The gas chambers were the only brick buildings in the camp, Colls said. The excavations also revealed orange tiles that matched eyewitness descriptions of the floor of the killing chambers. Chillingly, each tile was stamped with a Star of David, likely part of the Nazi subterfuge that the building was a Jewish-style bathhouse.
There’s an armchair historian for you. And as we have already noted, for Cesarani the extermination of the Jews was a sideshow and not the main goal of the Germans. So for the Hungarian Operation, when supposedly 400,000 Hungarian Jews were deported to Birkenau and murdered, he writes:
By putting things that way, one of the most highly regarded newspapers in the world has given its definition of the Holocaust. The annihilation of a total of 26 million people by the National Socialists in ultra-modern killing machines is the cruelest crime in the history of humanity.
Transport lists shows that between 2 March and 6 April 1943, six transports with altogether 7,699 Dutch Jews left Westerbork for the “extermination camp” of Sobibór.[134] Was the person behind the Vievis rumor perhaps misinformed about the number of Dutch deportees? This may be, but it is also possible that Vievis at this time held Dutch Jews deported to the East not only via Sobibór but also via Auschwitz. Between 17 July 1942 and 25 February 1943 a total of 42,533 Dutch Jews were sent to Auschwitz; 30,413 were “gassed upon arrival”, i.e. transited elsewhere.[135] If part of these were sent to Vievis, it is possible that there indeed were 19,000 Dutch Jews present in this town on 16 April 1943.
Demjanjuk’s mother’s benefactors were not long in exacting revenge for this assault on the national treasury of the Ukrainian people committed unwittingly by the bereft mother. The authorities, in possession of Demjanjuk’s postwar applications for a driver’s license in East Germany, cobbled up a much-discredited “identification card” for Demjanjuk as a guard at the notorious Trawniki concentration camp, and we were off to the races. Demjanjuk’s troubles with the laws of Israel, Germany and the US never ended after that.
“Israel notes with regret and repugnance that the other German state (DDR) has ignored and continues to ignore Germany’s historical responsibility for the Holocaust and the moral obligations arising from it. It has compounded the gravity of that attitude by giving support and practical assistance to the campaign of violence and murder waged against Israel and the Jewish people by Arab terror organizations.”
Miklos Nyiszli wrote a memoir published in Hungarian in 1946 entitled Dr. Mengele boncolóorvosa voltam az auschwitz-i krematóriumban (I Was Dr. Mengele’s Anatomical Physician in the Auschwitz Crematorium.)[49] The work was later translated into French, German, English, Polish and Italian, rising to prominence in orthodox Holocaust historiography of the 1960s.
The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes: And Other Writings on the Holocaust, Revisionism, and Historical Understandingby Samuel Crowell, Nine Banded Books, Charleston, W. Va., 2011. 401pp. Indexed.
Because he might confess. He was alive, in keeping with their wishes, but still incarcerated, very much against their wishes, if only because there, he might be subject, á la Rudolf Höss[2] of Holocaust fame, to coercion, or even inducements, to confess to the crimes of which he was accused. This would certainly never do. In fact, Frank nearly died in his cell, as Epstein did in his, after a fellow inmate cut his jugular vein with a butcher knife about one month after the commutation. Perhaps the would-be murderer was committing a din rodef[3] murder in behalf of Jewish paymasters not unlike those said to have commissioned Jeffrey Epstein’s death.
Helena Kubica stresses that the Gypsies at Auschwitz, at least in theory, were not treated as inmates, but as “internees who were to remain there only until the end of the war, and their conditions were initially better than those of the other inmates”. This was particularly true with regard to food for children.
In 1943 some of the men in charge of British war propaganda deplored “this gas chambers story.” For his part, the revisionist Germar Rudolf sums up the subject rather well in his Lectures on the Holocaust (Chicago, Theses & Dissertations Press, 2005, 566 pp., pp. 82-85). Even Victor Cavendish-Bentinck, a senior official of the Intelligence Service in London ready to believe just about any nonsense said against the Germans, was to write: “I feel certain that we are making a mistake in publicly giving credence to this gas chambers story” (p. 83). The trouble was that the British, undisputed champions of lying propaganda during the two world wars, needed those fables. On February 29, 1944 their Ministry of Information sent the BBC and the Church of England a circular letter7 of the greatest cynicism, requesting their respective cooperation for the spreading of propaganda on the basis of atrocity stories either already in circulation or currently being concocted. It was a matter of forestalling the disastrous effect that the Red Army, an ally, was inevitably to bring about in Central Europe by real atrocities (p. 84)!
Specifically referring to “deniers,” Kahn claims that revisionist arguments and scientific evidence are “insulting to groups,” yet the purpose of historical inquiry is not based upon concerning itself with people’s feelings and sensitivities, but what can be historically and scientifically documented and proved. The psychiatrist’s couch remains the best venue for addressing people’s feelings and emotional hurts.
The crematory capacity of a typical II/III crematorium adopted by the witness, therefore, before rises from 3,240 to 550-600 and then falls to 1,800 bodies in 24 hours, without any explanation.
Readers of The True Story of Andersonville Prison will be tempted, if they react to it the way I did, to see the postwar prosecutions in Germany, Poland and later in Israel as but more of a continuum reaching back into human history as far back as tribunals and drumhead courts have been contrived to extend the propaganda value of retributive killings by the victors of wars. Persons so influenced, however, would do well to heed the fate of those reaching a similar conclusion regarding wartime deaths of noncombatants at the hands of the losers: pronouncing continuities in history can still, 65 years after the end of the war, get you in big trouble, even jail in a number of “advanced” western countries.
I would like to pose a number of questions which could serve as excellent starting points relevant to the revisionist process and then try to briefly respond to them. Firstly, what were the actual responsibilities of the Einsatzgruppen? Their main task was maintaining order and security within the rear areas of the German armies on the eastern front. This included the gathering of intelligence and especially the combating and repression of partisans. With this new twist in the Holocaust story, they were also somehow additionally tasked with the total extermination of Jews. Not just the Jews of all the areas they were responsible for - Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Belarus, Ukraine, the Crimea, areas of the Caucasus, and occupied Russia - but also Jews from Germany and western Europe which were allegedly shipped off to them for liquidation.
One single observation is due here: if anyone is a crook and an impostor here, it surely is not Leuchter. Moreover, it is not true that Leuchter based his research exclusively “on the works of Robert Faurisson.” Actually, Leuchter wrote four expert reports in total, and his fourth report is dedicated to a technical evaluation of Jean-Claude Pressac’s magnum opus, Technique and Operation of the Gas Chambers.[16]
Defenders of the Holocaust story inevitably raise eyewitness testimony as proof that the genocide of European Jewry happened. However, as I discussed elsewhere, eyewitness testimony to the so-called Holocaust is notoriously unreliable.[29]
The sum of 1.5 million German POWs, 2.1 million German expellees, and 5.7 million German residents equals the minimum estimate of 9.3 million Germans who died needlessly after the war. This is far more Germans than died during the Second World War. Millions of these Germans slowly starved to death wwhile the Allies withheld available food. The majority of these postwar dead Germans were women, children, and very old men. Their deaths have never been honestly reported by the Allies, the German government, or most historians. Instead, all that is ever memorialized is the alleged genocide of European Jewry.
Again, the “ride to Birkenau” was surprising—all of about five minutes. Out of the small village, across a field, and there we were, at the famous entrance building, complete with train tunnel (Photo 12—a poor exposure, as my camera was beginning to fail me). There we were, at the site of the greatest mass killing in human history: 1.1 million people, the vast majority Jews, killed over two years (1943 and 1944), 90 percent of whom were gassed in the four crematoria.
4. Finally, the massive discolorations of the outside of the walls of the disinfestation chambers in Birkenau and Stutthof, as shown in this expert report, are clearly visible and conclusive evidence for the fact of how easily hydrogen cyanide and its soluble derivatives can and do penetrate such walls.
Dr. Green is not able to provide any convincing evidence why Prussian Blue would not form efficiently in the homicidal gas chambers. For example, Dr. Green states that masonry in the alleged homicidal gas chambers has a neutral pH value which does not allow for the formation of cyanide salts. Germar Rudolf writes:[19]
The applicant gave evidence that the Australian Jewish community has the highest percentage of survivors of the Holocaust of any Jewish community outside of Israel. Each of the first two of the imputations identified in [88] above thus challenges and denigrates a central aspect of the shared perception of Australian Jewry of its own modern history and the circumstances in which many of its members came to make their lives in Australia rather than in Europe. To the extent that the material conveys these imputations it is, in my view, more probable than not that it would engender feelings of hurt and pain in the living by reason of its challenge to deep seated belief as to the circumstances surrounding the deaths, or the displacement, of their parents or grandparents… [and that it] would engender in Jewish Australians a sense of being treated contemptuously, disrespectfully and offensively…
“Defending Against the Allied Bombing Campaign: Air Raid Shelters and Gas Protection in Germany” quickly found adherents and detractors from both the revisionist and exterminationist camps. While Crowell never claimed to be the first to make the air-raid-shelter argument, he clearly developed it beyond what others had done.[2] For revisionists who had argued for years that the gas chambers were all disinfection or delousing chambers, the “bomb-shelter thesis” seemed to take direct aim at their work. Likewise, a letter to Walter Reich, the Director of the USHMM explaining that the door displayed in the Washington DC museum was the replica of a common mass-produced air-raid-shelter door, went unanswered.[3]
Inevitably when anyone questions the genocide of European Jewry, eyewitness testimony is raised as proof that the genocide happened. This article shows that the eyewitness accounts of the Holocaust story have proved to be extremely unreliable and ineffective in proving its validity.
Let us recall that while the report was being drafted, the Soviet commission was carrying out its investigations in the camp. One of its sections was a technical group consisting of three officers with engineering degrees. The Soviet technicians carefully studied the abandoned but intact crematorium where a small room of 2.9 x 3.9 m was “identified” as a former gas chamber.[52] Even today visitors to Sachsenhausen are told that this room formerly served as a “gas chamber”. It would have been greatly embarrassing if the former inmates of Sachsenhausen had known nothing of a “gas chamber” in May and June 1945!
The Germans did not use more than one bullet to kill a Jew. Three hundred cartridges, 300 bullets, 300 people executed here. . . . .The proof of genocide was so flagrant and so real. (p. 53).
The purpose of this essay is to show that the call by Michael Curtis for the suppression of “Holocaust denial” on the Internet is thoroughly mischievous and ought to be shunned and rejected by all decent and well-disposed persons.
There are many further modifications to the procedural law that are detrimental to defendants. I can’t explore them all here. A list of some of the sections in question can be found in Footnote 5 of Rainer Hamm’s article on the “Evidence as a Legal Concept and Its Scrutiny during Legal Revisions” (“Beweis als Rechtsbegriff und seine revisionsrechtliche Kontrolle”) that can be found in the Festschrift für Gerhard Fezer cited here.[11] If you are interested in further details of the historical development of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the Federal Republic of Germany, I recommend reading the previously mentioned article by Ingo Müller. He describes therein how salutary departures were undertaken after the Second World War to make the German Code of Criminal Procedure more liberal after it had been decimated to the detriment of defendants under National Socialism. A countermovement developed in the 1970s, however, in response to the terrorism of the Red Army Faction in which all the liberal reforms were reversed. Thereafter followed wave after wave of “deliberalization,” so that one can now rightly say that today the German Code of Criminal Procedure is more-repressive than it was under National Socialism.
The Aktion Reinhardt camps were transit camps rather than extermination camps. The demographic studies, the statements from Heinrich Himmler, the  reports of transfers of Jews from the Aktion Reinhardt camps to Auschwitz and Majdanek, the lack of credible forensic evidence that mass exterminations occurred at these camps, the photographic and engineering evidence, the impossibility of disposing of so many bodies in such a short period of time, the relative lack of secrecy and security in the camps, and the small size of the areas where the bodies were supposedly buried all refute that the Aktion Reinhardt camps were death camps.
How much burning liquid fat would flow in the direction of the collection pit? We can't know for sure, but let's consider a pyre of 2000 bodies, with an average body being 45 kg. This body mass accounts not for emaciation (clearly, you won't get much fat from an emaciated person) but for children's bodies. I should note here that most Jews arriving in Auschwitz-Birkenau in the periods in question weren't in the best shape, but they weren't emaciated either, probably unlike the majority of Jews taken to the Aktion Reinhard(t) camps.
Venezia's cousin, Y. Gabbai, of whom he speaks repeatedly, reached Auschwitz in the same transport and was registered under number 182569[21], but, according to him, 700 men were selected upon arrival[22]. He was obviously not familiar with D. Czech's Kalendarium.
Opposition groups were investigated as to their threat to the national community. McDonough states that concentration camp numbers until the outbreak of the war did not expand greatly. By the time of the declaration of war, 21,400 prisoners were held in six camps.26 Those put under protective custody were rarely subjected to torture. The justice ministry frequently reminded the Gestapo that there were severe punishments for the ill-treatment of prisoners.27
Deborah Lipstadt was right. Jewish organizations do generally applaud the prosecution of people who express dissident opinions concerning the Holocaust. For example, Shimon Samuels, the international relations director of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, expressed his satisfaction that the rising prosecutions of revisionists were part of an overall trend in Europe to try and atone for the Holocaust.
Since I was well supplied with American cigarettes I went into the Buchenwald camp several times in order to exchange them for underwear, shirts and socks.
Another mass shooting occurred on 9 November 1940 when 33 Poles were executed. The execution is mentioned in one of the earliest inmate reports[56] and in almost all early inmate testimonies (Fliege, Šlaža [Shlasha], Weiss-Ruethel, Wunderlich). Additionally, the delinquents had been registered by the Register Office (Standesamt) of Oranienburg, which was discovered by an inquiry of the Nationale Mahn- und Gedenkstätte Sachsenhausen[57]. The shooting ditch did not yet exist at that time, but at the same place was apparently a small sand-pit, which had to fulfill the same purpose [58]. The reason for the execution of the 33 Poles was presumably atrocities committed against the German minority in Poland on 3 September 1939 (“Bromberg Bloody Sunday”).
“Dies ist eine Aussage, die regelmäßig in Erklärungen zur Nazizeit auftaucht. Diese Zahl hat jedoch keine wissenschaftliche Grundlage. […] Die ‘5 Millionen’ [nichtjüdische Holocaustopfer] hat Holocaust-Historiker zum Wahnsinn getrieben, seit Wiesenthal in den 1970erJahren damit begann, sie zu verbreiten. […]
German defense counsels were allowed to mount a defense but were prohibited from themselves making accusations against the USSR; i.e. they could work to disprove the version of the prosecution but could not present their own version. They did manage to present sufficient evidence and testimony to clear their clients and the IMT dropped the matter. It was obvious to the tribunal that the Germans had not committed the deed, so who could the perpetrator have been? Rather than pursue that line, the charges were discreetly dropped.
While the commission headed by Prosorovski adopted the figure of 21,700 victims which was based on the SS Häftlingsbewegung records and had been confirmed by Engemann and his team, they invented a plethora of additional groups of victims, making no attempt whatsoever to justify the figures adduced. The final death toll given by the commission was 100,000. This figure was adopted without any further ado by the Soviet military court that conducted the so-called “Berlin Trial”, where several members of the former SS garrison of Sachsenhausen were put on trial in Berlin-Pankow (October 1947). In 1961, when the “Sachsenhausen National Commemoration Site” was inaugurated by the East German authorities, a Book of Commemoration was published, where the 100,000 figure appeared three times: in the introduction, in a speech by Walter Ulbricht and in the “Cry of Sachsenhausen”. In the German Democratic Republic, this figure thus became a dogma nobody would dare to question.
Prior to the arrival of the first transports with Russian POWs, the SS had allegedly installed a neck-shooting facility in the hut and set up four field crematoria in front of it. The shooting hut is said to have been demolished in connection with the construction of the new crematorium (about January – May 1942). There is no photo and no blueprint of this hut. On the other hand, there was a big hut (or storage shed) only 30 meters from the new crematorium, which had been used as a store for the property of deceased concentration camp inmates from Eastern camps. The shed still existed intact at the end of the war and is well documented by Soviet photos (May/June 1945). We cannot rule out that perhaps this shed had been used as the “shooting hut” for Soviet POWs, since the shooting facilities were needed – after all we read - only some weeks in fall 1941 and for much fewer victims than the purported 14,000. The murder of the Soviet POWs (“Russenaktion”) raises many questions, that still lack credible answers. The big shed was demolished years after the war; only its outlines are still marked in the soil.
“Anyone should be encouraged to investigate critically the Holocaust story in the same way they are encouraged to investigate every other historical event. This is not a radical point of view. The culture of critique was developed millennia ago by Greek philosophers like Socrates, and was renewed centuries ago during the Enlightenment.” – unquote (from a CODOH Campus Project ad, 1991)
The deportation of the Jews from the ghetto of Łódź can also be mentioned. According to Franciszek Piper, 55,000-65,000 persons arrived at Auschwitz from August 15 to September 2, 1944, in 18 days;[76] this means (55,000-65,000 ÷ 18 =) 3,055-3,610 per day. Add to this the eight “gassings” of 2,000 persons and the five of 3,000 during 1944 mention in Czech’s Kalendarium.
Heinrich Lienau, an old Social Democrat whom clear-sighted fellow inmates aptly called a “rumor-monger” and a “teller of fairy tales”, mentions the rat torture in his book,[54] his informant being - Erwin Rathmann. Not content with the rat horror, Lienau serves his readers another mind-boggling atrocity story, a prisoner being quartered alive! To cut a long story short, the rat torture at Sachsenhausen is nothing but malign slander, however it perfectly reflected the spirit of those days. That the Soviet propagandists regularly used prisoners of the Germans to spread their atrocity tales fits the picture.
Bishop Farrell should ask himself this question. How can the testimony of survivors of the “death camps” prove that the Holocaust and the death of six million Jews is a historical fact when so many of these testimonies have been shown to be unreliable?
Three years afterwards, on December 27, 2009, the myth of Auschwitz received the coup de grâce. The blow was administered by a Jewish academic, Robert Jan van Pelt, whom one may consider the last person to have sought to prove scientifically that Auschwitz, the capital of the “Holocaust,” had been an “extermination camp” (an American term coined in November 1944), that is, a camp equipped with extermination “gas chambers.” The revisionists had no opponent more determined and more resolved to fight them on the historical and scientific level than this professor teaching the history of architecture at the University of Waterloo (Ontario, Canada). He defended the usual argument holding that, to gas several thousand Jews at a time, an SS man, having gotten up on the roof of certain “gas chambers,” poured Zyklon B pellets through four holes made in the concrete ceiling of the said “gas chambers.” Ever under the pressure of revisionist discoveries, he had been bound to concur that the holes in the small Krematorium I had been created by… the Soviets and the Polish communists. But R. J. van Pelt and his friends were sure of finding such holes in the concrete roofs, in ruins, of Krematoriums II and III. However, after years of research, they proved unable to supply a single photograph of those holes or of the perforated shafts (?) that allegedly had allowed the diffusion of hydrogen cyanide gas underneath, thus failing to meet my challenge summed up in the formula: “No holes, no Holocaust.” Hence the capitulation of R. J. van Pelt. On December 27, 2009, quoted in an article in the Toronto Star, he revealed that, in his opinion, the conservation of Auschwitz-Birkenau made little sense: it was better to let nature take it back. And he added, speaking of what we are supposed to know about the camp (that is, that there were “gas chambers,” etc. there), these precise words: “Ninety-nine per cent of what we know we do not actually have the physical evidence to prove”, going on to say of the “Holocaust” in general that, in future: “We will know about it from literature and eyewitness testimony [...]. To demand that we have more material evidence is actually us somehow giving in to the Holocaust deniers by providing some sort of special evidence” (“A case for letting nature take back Auschwitz”, Toronto Star, December 27, 2009).
[16] Rudolf, Germar, The Rudolf Report: Expert Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the “Gas Chambers” of Auschwitz, Washington, D.C.: The Barnes Review, 2011, p. 40.
“One knew that there were concentration camps. The Dresden members of the Communist Party were incarcerated at the Hohenstein Castle. In 1933, after the Nazis took power, they were collected there, and the population of Dresden knew that there was a concentration camp where members of the Communist Party were incarcerated. At that time there weren’t any concentration camps where Jews were being held, unless they were politicians. Only in 1943 did it become clear to me that Jews were being incarcerated in large numbers. They disappeared without any ado, picked up one by one. I knew that there was a special stratum of Jews here in Dresden that was richer than others who had pensions or had emigrated. But in the inner city, there were also poorer Jews from sections of the city where less affluent people lived because rents were cheaper. They didn’t have the money to emigrate.” (p. 198)
But because of the scornful, precise attack Rollins then gives to the “dynamic duo” of Michael Shermer and Alex Grobman, I can easily forgive any of his text’s other shortcomings. Rollins, who had been slighted by the Duo (“a self-proclaimed ‘professional skeptic’ and a professional Jew”) in their ridiculous 2000 book Denying History, proceeds to dismantle that text’s claim to be an exhaustive critique of revisionists. After pointing out that credible, professional responses to revisionism have been published (his examples are Pressac, Vidal-Naquet, and van Pelt), he proves that Shermer and Grobman, on the other hand, are “a whole different kettle of gefilte fish.” After accusing the Duo of “hypocritical sniping,” he assures us that “almost all of the fallacies they attribute to revisionists—quoting out of context, selective quotation, selective use of evidence, the ‘snapshot fallacy,’ making unsupported assertions, engaging in speculation—are committed by Shermer and Grobman themselves in Denying History.” This, the most satisfying section of Rollins’ work, is filled with the sharp humor for which I will most remember Rollins. Any revisionist who wishes to see jerks like Shermer and Grobman have their day in court will be very pleased by Rollins’ hilarious retaliation.
Schulte noted that such a statement “no longer appeared credible”[5], and he was completely right. On this visit, Himmler [in his] report drawn up on 17 March 1941 by SS-Untersturmführer Heinrich Schwarz, prisoner labor deployment head (Häftlingseinsatzführer) at Auschwitz, and addressed to the head of the Central Section I/5 of the SS-Hauptamt Haushalt und Bauten (Central Logistics and Construction Office of the SS), directed by SS-Gruppenführer Oswald Pohl, limits himself to stating as follows:
[17] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, p. 46.
“Most people who were aware of [the IHR’s] existence dismissed it as a conglomeration of Holocaust deniers, neo-Nazis, philo-Germans, right-wing extremists, antisemites, racists, and conspiracy theorists.” (p. 154)
[17] Van Pelt, Robert Jan, The Case for Auschwitz: Evidence from the Irving Trial, Bloomington and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 2002, p. 496.
October. French fascist writer Maurice Bardèche publishes the book Nuremberg ou la Terre promise (“Nuremberg or The Promised Land”, Le Sept Couleurs, Paris) in which he criticizes the International Military Tribunal and its verdict, especially focusing on claims made by the French trial delegation that the German occupation forces had sought to ”exterminate” the French population. The book, however, does not dispute the Holocaust per se, i.e. the allegations of a German extermination plan for the Jews and mass killings in gas chambers (“concerning this there are numerous pieces of evidence”, Bardèche writes). On the other hand, he notes that contemporary German documents shows “the solution of the Jewish problem” to have “consisted only of an assembling of the Jews in a territorial zone which one called the Jewish Reserve”. According to Bardèche, the defendants at Nuremberg
“A gas chamber was in the process of being built at Dachau, but it was never completed.”
The proposed European Union law against Holocaust denial was based upon the following criteria:
Outside again, our guide was suddenly much more relaxed. Now we have time for a break, for bathrooms, for a visit to the gift shop, she said. “Be out front at the bus at 12:30, for the ride over to Birkenau.” Finally, I thought—the highlight of the trip.
The languishing of bodies in the morgues of Birkenau for "15 or 20 days" has no basis in reality, which renders Venezia's tale unsustainable from that point onwards.
Prisoners entering a camp would strip their clothing and get a haircut to prevent any areas where deadly typhus-carrying body lice could thrive. Then they would take a hot shower. At the same time, their clothing would be put into specially designed fumigation chambers where fumigation crews would use the insecticide Zyklon B to kill deadly typhus-carrying body lice.
Pavel Sudoplatov’s testimony has been widely dismissed by scientists, historians and journalists. They state that the American government’s “Venona files” contain no evidence that Oppenheimer was a Communist Party member or that he gave secret information to Soviet agents while on the Manhattan Project. To this, Jerrold and Leona Schecter, who interviewed Sudoplatov for the book Special Tasks, reply that atomic espionage went through Santa Fe to Mexico City in order to avoid Washington surveillance. Therefore, the reports from the Manhattan Project were not recorded because they went through channels other than Venona.[18]
The Allied press reported soon after Hitler’s invasion of Poland in 1939 that he had “started the war with a lie.” Who fed the Allied press this line? That “lie” consisted of the “false flags” perpetrated by the instruments of the NSDAP itself (Gestapo, SS and SD) at Gleiwitz, H/H and Pitschen. However, not one of these “false flags” has any evidence to support it.
Friends have recently asked me to consider what I think the future holds for historical revisionism, especially that of the Second World War and even more specifically that most contentious of sub-genres, that of the Holocaust. While I generally tend to avoid futurology, I believe in this case a look forward based on the events and trends of our recent experience may prove to be an important warning. I recognize that my view is but one possible future for revisionism. I hope that in the months to come other authors with a special interest in revisionism will share with us at Inconvenient History their thoughts and visions of other possible futures for revisionism.
Revisionist historian Thomas Kues sums up the dilemma: “While, on the one hand, Sobibor’s first commandant, Franz Stangl, testified that the first gas chambers were housed in a brick building, ‘Gasmeister’ Erich Bauer on the other hand penned a ‘confession’ which described the same building as made of wood. To confuse things further, former SS-Unterscharführer Erich Fuchs stated in his 1963 testimony that the first Sobibor gas chambers were in a ‘concrete structure.’”[42]
That 10,000 Jews had been sent from Antwerp to Łódz appears to have been originally reported by the Belgian government-in-exile.[16] This supposed deportation was also mentioned by demographer E.M. Kulischer.[17] Mainstream historiography is unaware of it, and there exists no documentary evidence confirming it.
A bit of a digression here: an Internet site known as Holocaust Controversies, where the principal prize-winner for obtuseness and bad faith is a certain Roberto Muehlenkamp,[12] a member of the site's resident Holocaust "affirmer" crew adduces this testimony as a "concordant proof" of the "method of killing" employed by the commandants of the SS Einsatzgruppen and Police in the Ukraine.[13] The "stamping" method (p. 100) is said to confirm that of "Sardinenpackung," or sardine packing, said to have been practiced by Friedrich Jeckeln, Höherer SS- und Polizeiführer with the German Army Group South in Russia, and vice versa. Evidence of these claims is said to be provided by two sources explaining exactly what "sardine packing" consists of. The first says that the victims
6) The invoice of the Topf Company no. 729 of May 27, 1943 relative to Crematorium III, reports the same data and the same prices (Documents 21 a,b,c,d)
The real number is hardly any higher: 22 guards in four crematoria, 10 in the day and 12 at night. These guards had to keep an eye on 870 prisoners from the so-called "Sonderkommando". In Crematorium III, 5 guards (2 in the day and 3 at night) had to watch 220 prisoners[236]: not very many if the prisoners knew they were absolutely certain to die!
“The Mengele phenomenon presents a few mysteries. The available sources are few. Almost all the written notes capable of providing information on Mengele’s crimes at Auschwitz have been destroyed. We must have recourse almost exclusively to eyewitness testimonies. [But] testimonies, forty years later,[43] are always problematical – all the more so in an extreme case such as this one. In the minds of many former inmates, ‘harrowing reality and nightmares have inextricably merged together over a period of forty years.’ All too often, it is impossible to be sure that their recollections really refer to Mengele at all: it is all too often possible to show that Mengele has been confused with other SS physicians. Almost all the inmates state that they were selected by Mengele on the ramp. But camp physicians performed the selections in shifts: Mengele performed no more selections than any of the others. One gets the impression that Mengele’s name has gotten separated from his person. For the inmates, he became synonymous with all Auschwitz camp physicians as such.”[44]
For all the claptrap about Churchill's "farsightedness" during the 30s in opposing the "appeasers," in the end the policy of the Chamberlain government — to rearm as quickly as possible, while testing the chances for peace with Germany — was more realistic than Churchill's.
Not being a scholar of ancient history, and having no Internet at hand, Hitler knew little of all this. He simply picked up on prior German and European usage. In fact, talk of Aryans as a superior race predated Hitler by several decades. It was a main theme of Frenchman Arthur de Gobineau’s book Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races, of 1855. And it was prominent in Briton-turned-German author Houston Stewart Chamberlain’s book Foundations of the Nineteenth Century, published in 1899. By the time Hitler picked up on the term, it was old hat.
The remainder of the trip was uneventful. The forecasts called for rain that day, but supposedly not until later in the day; with luck it would hold out for our visit. Around 10:30 am—a good two hours after my pickup—we rolled into the town of Oswieçim. It was a typical smallish European town, nicely maintained, with the usual amenities. We drove only a few minutes through the town when, suddenly, we arrived at the main camp, Auschwitz I. For those not familiar, “Auschwitz” is comprised of three primary facilities, and dozens of smaller sub-camps. The original and main camp is Auschwitz I, also called the Stammlager. It opened as a Nazi camp in 1940, but was originally built by the Polish army as a military barracks complex, apparently during World War I. This camp allegedly had a single gas chamber, which we were about to see. But the vast majority of the gassings are said to have occurred at Auschwitz II, known as Birkenau. This would come later in the day. The third facility, Auschwitz III (Monowitz), was located some three kilometers from the town, and served as an industrial facility; no mass murder is alleged to have happened there, and consequently it receives few tourists.
When asked in 1983 how the extermination of European Jewry took place without an order, pro-Holocaust historian Raul Hilberg replied:
“If the number of condemned prisoners was small in number, they did not kill them with gas. First, the prisoners had to strip naked and were placed in a chamber. One of the members of the Sonderkommando lined them up one behind the other. Another Sonderkommando then took each one by the ear and led him to another chamber. An SS officer was hiding behind the door. He shot each one in the temple. The pistol had a silencer on it. When the condemned prisoner fell, two other inmates would transport him to the lift. If the number of condemned prisoners were extremely small, the Germans did not use gas or a pistol to kill them. They would burn them alive, throwing them into the fire.”
So Valla’s book enjoyed, if only from neglect by the authorities, acceptability at least until such time as it was set in type and printed and/or translated into the rising vernacular languages in Europe (Valla died during this period). Then it was blacklisted, then it might have been taken off the blacklist at some point, and it had become the forerunner of dominant opinion by 1600 or so. Butz’s book seems to have enjoyed some favorable notoriety along with the unfavorable type to be expected, and Butz addressed several annual conferences of the Institute for Historical Review in the early to mid Eighties. While Butz’s book had the stage for revisionist books (again, in English) virtually to itself for its first decade or two, the subsequent appearance of dozens upon dozens of new books and translations of older books have still not dislodged it from its place of pride at the head of the list of scholarly books on the Holocaust. If mere quality and extent of scholarship really mattered in the impact such works have, the Holocaust legend would not have survived past 1980.
[13] Guttenplan, D. D., The Holocaust on Trial, New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 2001, p. 298.
Crematorium II, fresh-air intake: 50 sheet-metal screens
“The tribunal roared out a threat to arrest […] the principal defense lawyer […]” (vol. 1, p. 350)
The ICRC found that published regulations regarding the dietary requirements of inmates in Czech-run camps were almost invariably ignored. Pierre W. Mock, head of the ICRC delegation in Bratislava, calculated the daily caloric intake of prisoners at Petržalka I Camp at 664 per person during the third week of October 1945. The daily caloric intake had declined to 512 per person when Mock returned to the Petržalka I Camp in the last week of December 1945. At Nováky, a former German concentration camp, Mock found the milk and bread ration to be woefully inadequate to feed the population of more than 5,000.
In the August 18, 1967 issue of Time magazine (pp. 28-29), Jewish influence in the former Polish Communist government was highlighted. They wrote: “Though anti-Semitism has a long and virulent history in Poland, Jews form a vital and powerful segment of the present Polish government. As in other countries in Eastern Europe, the roots of the Polish Communist Party go back to 19th century Jewish-led organizations. And as Europe’s Communist parties grew after World War I, so did the influence of the Jews within them. During World War II and Nazi occupation, many Polish Communist Jews fled to Russia for sanctuary – and many returned with the Red Army to hold high military, secret police and administrative posts. Thus, though there are only 30,000 Jews in Poland today, they are seeded influentially from the politburo down through the intellectual community and the Polish press. After Party Boss Wladyslaw Gomulka’s decision to break off diplomatic ties with Israel last June at Moscow’s behest, there was a modicum of wry truth in a gibe that quickly made the rounds in Warsaw: Tel Aviv was going to retaliate by withdrawing the Polish government…” Nevertheless, as in the case of Russia, Polish promotion of the Holocaust mythology cannot be solely explained by Jewish influence.
Several observers compared the fate of the German expellees to the victims of the German concentration camps. Maj. Stephen Terrell of the Parachute Regiment stated: “Even a cursory visit to the hospitals in Berlin, where some of these people have dragged themselves, is an experience which would make the sights in the Concentration Camps appear normal.”[40]
The chlorine gas, Zyklon B gas, “other un-named” gas, and electrocution stories have clearly been discreetly dumped by the “official history” of the Holocaust—an implicit admittance that they are all false. At this point Judge Matia should ask himself this question: since the stories of Jews being murdered with electricity, chlorine, Zyklon B and other un-named gases at Sobibor are false, isn’t it also possible that the “official truth” that Jews were murdered with carbon monoxide is also false?
In the late 1970s, Karski’s story was given a new round of publicity, and he gave a number of interviews discussing his visit to Belzec. Far from reconciling his experiences with the accepted history of Belzec, these interviews highlighted and extended the contradictions. Karski repeatedly told interviewers that during the war he had actually believed that Belzec was a transit camp, not a death camp. Once Karski had given several such interviews, Holocaust historians began to catch onto the fact that Karski’s story was incompatible with the official history of the Belzec camp, and beginning in the late 1980s began to distance themselves from him. One of the first to express reservations in print was Raul Hilberg, who complained in his book Perpetrators, Victims, Bystanders that
Thus, it is satisfying to follow Perron and Fradin as they redress the balance by refuting the claims of a hidebound establishment that Holocaust revisionism is a baseless conspiracy, at the same time that they convincingly pin the conspiratorialist label on the accusers. Perron opens his examination by briefly surveying contemporary and classic authors on the usual source of conspiracy theory in rumor during troubled times. Perron lays his groundwork on the findings of modern theorists Pierre-André Taguieff, Jean-Noël Kapferer, and Gérald Bronner on the rise of rumors and the types of the circumstances in which they arise, take root, and spread. He moves closer to his quarry with post-WWI analyses by historians Albert Dauzat and Marc Bloch of the establishment manufacture of atrocity stories from wartime rumors.
Rajchman’s roast could accordingly use a maximum amount of either (22.5 × 600 =) 13,500 or (67.5 × 600 =) 40,500 kg firewood. This in turn correspond to (13,500 ÷ 160 =) 84 or (40,500 ÷ 160 =) 253 corpses. The roast could thus, at the very most, handle 10% of the 2,500 corpses alleged by Rajchman. The possible counter-argument that one somehow could have added more fuel to the fire during the cremation is refuted by Rajchman’s statement that the heat from the fire made it “difficult to approach the crematorium from as far as fifty meters away”.
Welcome back dear readers for our next inquiry into a Holocaust memoir. Today’s guest is Manny Steinberg and his memoir is Outcry: Holocaust Memoirs (Amsterdam Publishers, 2015). Approaching 1,400 reviews with 81% rating it five stars on Amazon, this merits a look.
Justice Minister Tommy Lapid seconded that denying the Holocaust “is a neo-Nazi crime. Anyone involved in this belongs to the group of criminals whom our arm must reach anywhere in the world…We will not hunt them, but they should know that they are on our list of criminals. I am very satisfied and happy that this will be entering our law books.”[12]
Defenders of the Holocaust story have also taken extreme measures to prosecute perpetrators of the alleged crimes. John Demjanjuk, for example, was found not guilty by the Israeli Supreme Court in 1993 of being “Ivan the Terrible” at Treblinka. Demjanjuk returned to his home in Cleveland, Ohio and looked forward to a peaceful retirement after spending years on death row in Israel. Unfortunately, in 2001 Demjanjuk was charged again on the grounds that he had allegedly been a guard named Ivan Demjanjuk at the Sobibór camp in Poland.
In total, then, it seems likely that roughly 570,000 Jews died throughout the duration of World War Two. We may call this a ‘holocaust’ if we wish, though such a designation implies special standing for the Jewish victims and a consequent demeaning of the more than 50 million non-Jewish victims. The ‘6 million’ figure was always a symbolic number, and never grounded in factual reality. Perhaps this many Jews were displaced during the war, and forced out of their home countries, never to return. Six million refugees, maybe; six million killed, never.
In war crimes trials, “conspiracy”, “design”, and “plan”, are used sometimes synonymously, and sometimes not. The doctrine of conspiracy was borrowed from American state and lower Federal Court decisions, particularly Marino v. US, 91 Fed. 2d. 691, Circuit Court of Appeals. The rest of the world, of course, was not placed on notice to obey these decisions. In 1945, conspiracy was a concept unknown to international law. An example of the unfairness of this doctrine in practice is provided by the instances of Schoepp and Gretsch, two of forty defendants in in the Trial of Martin Gottfried Weiss, one of the forty defendants associated with the operation of Dachau Concentration Camp, Dachau, Nov. 15 – Dec. 13, 1945, M1175 National Archives, beginning on microfilm page 000691.
The following is the transcript a video documentary based on the book Bungled: “Denying the Holocaust.” How Deborah Lipstadt Botched Her Attempt to Demonstrate the Growing Assault on Truth and Memory.” It demonstrates that Dr. Lipstadt clearly has neither understood what the principles and methods of science and scholarship are, nor has she any clue about the historical topics she is writing about. She misquotes, mistranslates, misrepresents, misinterprets, and makes a plethora of wild claims without backing them up with anything. Among other things, she utterly fails to use generally recognized standards of evidence. Given the way she handles documents and data, it is clear that she has no interest in scholarship or reason. In fact, truth has been the antithesis of her enterprise.
As a matter of fact, the European Jews had not been exterminated. In France, 75% of the Jewish population, and 90% of the Jews who held French passports, were not deported at all.[41] In most other countries under German control, the percentage of deportees was considerably higher, but countless documents prove that, while large numbers of Jewish concentration camp inmates died as a result of the conditions in the camps, there was no extermination policy. On 27 July 1944 the administration of Auschwitz compiled a statistical report about the prisoners "temporarily quartered in the camp of the Hungarian Jews.” The document shows that until that date 3,138 Hungarian Jews had received medical treatment at the camp hospital. 1,426 of them had undergone surgical operations.[42] (According to the Holocaust story, a huge number of Hungarian Jews were gassed at Auschwitz between 15 May and 9 July 1944. While not a single one of these alleged gas chamber murders is confirmed by a German document, the medical treatment of 3,138 Hungarian Jews at Auschwitz until 27 July is indeed documented.) As Polish historian Henry Świebocki reports, no fewer than 11,246 prisoners underwent surgery at Auschwitz between 10 September 1942 and 23 February 1944.[43] A very strange "extermination camp” indeed, is it not, Dr. Lindtner?
As we have pointed out in subchapter 5.2, the ESC erroneously assumed that the new crematorium had been completed as late as in March 1943 (as a matter of fact, it was already finished in the beginning of May 1942). From the point of view of the commission, the gas chamber could evidently not have been used before the construction of the crematorium was completed. In the light of these facts, it is hardly surprising that the former commandant of Sachsenhausen, Anton Kaindl, stated during his trial (October 1947) that he had ordered a gas chamber to be installed in March 1943, thus confirming the Soviet version of the events. It is a well-known fact that at Stalinist show trials the defendants regularly confessed everything the court desired to hear.
By now, Rassinier had become skeptical of the lurid gas-chamber stories which were being circulated. He wrote, "In 1950, it was still too soon to pronounce a definite judgment on the existence of gas chambers in the camps; documents were wanting and those that existed were incomplete, inexact, and obviously apocryphal or falsified."[8] In the 1964 book, The Drama of the European Jews, Rassinier's view became more firm:
I think that we weaken our case against the Germans by publicly giving credence to atrocity stories for which we have no evidence. These mass executions in gas chambers remind me of the stories of employment of human corpses during the last war for the manufacture of fat, which was a grotesque lie and led to the true stories of German atrocities being brushed aside as being mere propaganda.
Some six weeks later, on January 20 or 23, 1943, [116] Himmler wrote to Ganzenmüller and requested “more trains [mehr Züge]” for the Jewish transports.[117] This means that at this point in time an unspecified smaller number of trains must have been available to the Jewish resettlement program, otherwise Himmler’s wording of “more trains” would have made no sense. The moratorium was lifted at the latest sometime during the last weeks of January 1943.[118]
Carroll’s narrative is much more “sober” than Ventura’s but still he walks a fine line between history, investigative reporting, and tabloid sensationalism. While Carroll eschews the AIDS conspiracy, he provides similar evidence for the invention or weaponization of Lyme Disease (with the involvement of a Nazi scientist.) What makes one tale more credible than the other?
On his second day in Auschwitz he asked another prisoner about the selection he had went through the previous day:
What about the alleged 1 million Jews killed in the various ghettos? Where are their remains? What about the alleged 1.6 million Jews killed by shootings, mostly along the Eastern front; where are their remains? (Such figures are stated or implied by all of our experts, and are absolutely required to get us to the mandatory “6 million” total.) Not all of their remains, mind you, or even most of them. We would be satisfied with, say, half, or even a quarter, as long as we had a good explanation for the remainder. But instead we get stories of “600 bodies found here” and “250 bodies found there” and ashes consistent with perhaps “a few thousand bodies” at most. These are so far short of the “6 million” that they constitute an effective refutation of that very figure. Just as the “700,000 to 1 million” at Jasenovac is a farce, so too is the “6 million Jews” for the broader Holocaust.[5]
A review of the role of torture in the establishment of the non-facts upon which the Holocaust Myth is founded might be instructive at this juncture in world events. It will be found, in one way and another, behind every word, every plea, every accusation, and every verdict of the counterfeit judgments that provide legitimacy to assertions of the myth.
“Attempts at genocide denial are clearly flying in the face of proven historical evidence consisting of hundreds of original documents and witness testimony. The latter’s authenticity was vindicated by a trial process in which defence lawyers found it nearly impossible to challenge, let alone discredit, their authenticity, other than in two or three irrelevant instances.” (p. 26)
In 1946 the US government told us that 20 million people were murdered by Hitler. Now that figure is said to be 11 million; it has been “revised” downward and literally carved in stone at the US Holocaust Memorial. For years we were told that over 4 million were killed at Auschwitz alone, but by the early 1990s that figure was “revised” downward to 1.5 million. Wiesel tells us that people were thrown alive onto pyres; he claims to have seen it with his own eyes; today even Israeli-trained guides at Auschwitz say that is not true. They have already “revised” his narrative. These are but a few examples of historical revisionism, examples that are not inherently anti-Semitic and no longer considered taboo.
While the Kommissarbefehl concerned primarily the combat units, two special orders (Einsatzbefehle) issued in July 1941 by Reinhard Heydrich, chief of the Sicherheitspolizei and the SD, provided for the screening of the inmates of POW camps. The Germans had become aware of the fact that many commissars had mingled with the great mass of prisoners, their uniforms being indistinguishable from the ones of military officers or common soldiers but for a red star on the sleeve (which could easily be removed). Therefore the POWs in the camps were subjected to systematic interrogation. Those identified as commissars were “singled out” and sent to the nearest concentration camp to be shot. Both the Kommissarbefehl and Heydrich’s Einsatzbefehle were highly questionable measures and most likely illegal from the point of view of international law. As early as 15 November 1941, the two Einsatzbefehle were somewhat mitigated with Himmler’s approval: From now on, those singled out as commissars could be used for hard physical labor in the quarries instead of being shot.
Setkiewicz’s summary at the end of his article is not exactly flattering to the Holocaust historiography:
This narration refers to the so-called "Bunker 2", a farmhouse outside Birkenau camp, supposedly transformed into a homicidal gas chamber in 1942. In reality, this presumed extermination installation, as I have shown in a specific study[72], never existed. It never appears in any German document, either under the name "Bunker" or under any other name, not even a "code name".
On 21 April Sachsenhausen was evacuated, however between 2,400 and 3,400 prisoners were left behind in the camp, among them 2,000 – 3,000 sick and convalescent patients housed in the camp hospital and other buildings, 12 physicians (all of them prisoners and foreign nationals) and 25 orderlies.[1] Some stockmen (who had been employed at the hog-fattening farm and the angora rabbit breeding farm), gardeners, kitchen personnel and bakers also stayed behind; so did a group of about 40 Communist prisoners who had hidden in the camp because they wanted to welcome the Red Army, their comrades and liberators, rather than being evacuated. The battle of Berlin was still in full swing.
That's not to say that the book doesn't make some pretty weird choices. The cover, to my utter confusion, is adorned with a giant Star of David and an even more giant Swastika, as if those are the two "sides" of the Holocaust debate. Since Dalton spends so much time emphasizing that revisionists are not just Nazis, and that traditionalists aren't just Zionist Jews, this is a most bizarre, dissonant flaw; and because these images are emblazoned on the book's front cover, they're difficult to sweep under the rug. But despite this minor yet conspicuous mistake, I think Debating the Holocaust is an important contribution to the current state of revisionist scholarship, and I can only hope that, in future editions (this successful book is already in its third printing), the book's menacing, misleading cover will be replaced by something more befitting its reasonable and inoffensive content.
In regard to the politically inspired falsehood that four million people were murdered at Auschwitz, the late Pope John Paul II proposed it should be used as a “religious inspiration.” We let the New York Times pick up the story here about his June of 1979 religious service at the Auschwitz concentration camp: "His voice going hoarse on the sixth day of the visit to his native Poland, the Pope asked that all his listeners commit themselves to the care of human beings and the oppressed, in testimony for the four million—including two and a half million Jews—who died in the camps he could see from the raised altar platform."[19 ]
Michael Goldberg confirms that the Holocaust story has become a religion to many Jews:[31]
Rudolf’s testimony was abruptly cut short by the judge the moment the question of the gas chambers was raised by defense counsel. After a flurry of protests from Irving’s attorneys, the judge proceeded to rule that all testimony pertaining to gas chambers was inadmissible.
Well over a hundred specimens have been sampled from the walls of various buildings at the Birkenau and Auschwitz wartime camps by four different surveys. In sequence of publication these were: Leuchter (USA, 1988),[6] Rudolf (Germany, 1993),[ 7] Ball (Canada, 1993) [8] and Markiewicz et. al. (Poland, 1994). [9]
Based on the reports from the Special Commission in Sachsenhausen (a quarter in the town of Oranienburg north of Berlin), a first draft was composed (probably still in the camp itself). A copy of this document has survived (it is not kept in the aforementioned “Brown Portfolio”, but in another file).[13]
On December 16, 1942, the head of the Gestapo, SS-Gruppenführer Heinrich Müller, sent Himmler an urgent telegram requesting permission for the transport of 45,000 Jews to Auschwitz during the period January 11-31, 1943 “in respect of the increased transport of labor to concentration camps ordered by January 30, 1943.” Of these 45,000 Jews, 10,000 were to come from Theresienstadt, 3,000 from the Netherlands, 2,000 from Berlin, and 30,000 from the Białystok District. The number also included Jews unfit for work. Of the deportees, 10,000 to 15,000 were expected to be picked out for work during a selection (Ausmusterung) following their arrival at Auschwitz.[46] Nothing is said about the fate of the deportees found unfit for work. One of the local German ghetto administrators in Grodno, Dr. Wilhelm Altenloh, stated in his interrogation of September 6, 1961 that, when he received the order from the Reich Security Main Office (Reichssicherheitshauptamt, RSHA) to evacuate the ghettos in the Białystok district in the winter of 1942, it mentioned that the evacuated Jews would be brought to the General Government for labor deployment (Arbeitseinsatz).[47] When questioned on the issue again on August 20, 1963, Altenloh stated that “all circumstances spoke against the killing of the Jews, as at that time they were urgently needed as labor in the armaments industry.”[48] Heinz Errelis, former head of the Gestapo in Grodno, testified on August 13, 1963 that:
Mr Allen and myself have both followed German atrocities quite closely. I do not believe that there is any evidence which would be accepted in a Law Court that Polish children have been killed on the spot by Germans when their parents were being deported to work in Germany, nor that Polish children have been sold to German settlers. As regards putting Poles to death in gas chambers, I do not believe that there is any evidence that this has been done. There have been many stories to this effect, and we have played them up in PWE rumours without believing that they had any foundation. At any rate there is far less evidence than exists for the mass murder of Polish ofﬁcers by the Russians at Katyn. On the other hand we do know that the Germans are out to destroy Jews of any age unless they are ﬁt for manual labour.
As previously discussed, Karski’s statements that he had seen Belzec as a transit camp, coupled with his newfound celebrity, put traditionalist Holocaust scholars in an uncomfortable position. Accepting that Belzec actually was a transit camp was out of the question. Calling Karski a liar was politically inconvenient, and would set a dangerous precedent. Consequently, they elected not to reject Karski’s story altogether, but to change his destination. The location they seized on was Izbica, a Jewish town located between Belzec and Lublin.
The Passenger, promoted as "a Holocaust-themed opera," was written in the Soviet Union by Weinberg during the 1960s but, despite enthusiastic support from Dmitri Shostakovich, had to wait until 2010 to premiere, at the Bregenz Festival in Austria. Festival director David Pountney then brought it to Warsaw, London and Madrid before its US premiere in Houston in 2014, followed by a performance in New York later in 2014. It was first performed in Chicago in Feb. 2015, with Pountney as stage director.
[9] Most mainstream historians assert that deceased concentration camp inmates (referred to as Heinrich Müller’s “canned goods”) were left at the scene as opposed to just a single man. However, few of these historians agree on the number of bodies purportedly left at the scene; nor does any of these historians support their claims with reliable evidence. They all rely on conjecture and hearsay. See Heinz Höhne’s thesis, for example. (Heinrich Müller was Chief of the Gestapo throughout the war. He disappeared or died in 1945.)
Bronislaw Falborski in Lanzmann’s movie Shoah (1985) This is a very important account, because it firmly and securely links the gas-van claims of Chelmno with the moving truck found in the courtyard of the former “Ostrowski” company. But since the Polish investigation commission several months later came to the conclusion that this truck had indeed been nothing else but an innocuous moving truck, it can therefore be stated with certainty that the witness Bronislaw Falborski saw nothing but harmless moving trucks, and that the repairs he performed were made on just as harmless a vehicle.
Breaking the Spell. The Holocaust: Myth and Reality. Nicholas Kollerstrom. Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield, UK,[1] 2014. 256 pp., including index.
In 1979, when Smith was 49 years old, his life changed forever when he read a leaflet by Robert Faurisson, “The Problem of the Gas Chambers.” The story of this life-changing moment is recounted in his autobiographical work, Confessions of a Holocaust Revisionist.  Smith writes, “I felt stunned, as if Buck Rogers had somehow come down from the 21st century and zapped me with a beam from his ray gun.” It took him three months to digest the core of the revisionist argument. And then, like a toreador emerging from the callejόn, he jumped into the struggle. He knew from the beginning that he was going to address the taboo against publishing revisionist arguments, not the arguments themselves. He would be the “Henry Miller” of the revisionists. Not as famous as Miller, not as original, but his job needed doing, desperately.
At the postwar Nuremberg Tribunal, the Allies charged that the Germans exterminated four million people at Auschwitz. Until 1990, a memorial plaque at Auschwitz read: “Four Million People Suffered and Died Here at the Hands of the Nazi Murderers Between the Years 1940 and 1945.”[14] During a 1979 visit to the camp, Pope John Paul II stood before this memorial and blessed the alleged four million victims.[15]
While they were at it, someone, at some later date, significantly altered the crematorium chimney. Compare the following Photo 19, from the summer of 1944, with Photo 1, which I explicitly took from the same perspective.
This is the third article in a series forming a chronicle of Holocaust revisionism and responses to it from the first years of the Post-War era up to the present. In the first two parts, we surveyed the first decade of Shoah skepticism, from the very first doubts, mainly concerning the 6-million-victim figure, to the first publications of revisionist pioneer and former concentration camp inmate Paul Rassinier, in which the alleged homicidal gas chambers came into focus as the central issue of dispute. Below I will continue this survey with the latter half of the 1950s. Here I am again indebted to Mr. Jean Plantin and his exhaustive documentation Anthologie chronologique de textes révisionniste des années quarante et cinquante (A Chronological Anthology of Revisionist Texts from the Forties and Fifties).[1]
Marcinkowski was called at the trial and repeated the story, stating this time that 120 to 130 kg of Zyklon had been used.[99] Captain Anton Freud, in turn, repeated this claim while interrogating Tesch, in order to prove that the Zyklon supply to Auschwitz was excessive:
This article originally appeared as Chapter 3 of Germar Rudolf's recent book, Fail “Denying the Holocaust” How Deborah Lipstadt Botched Her Attempt to Demonstrate the Growing Assault on Truth and Memory. The book may be purchased through https://shop.codoh.com/book/427/439.
Evans also disputes David Irving’s statements that the Wannsee Conference held on January 20, 1942 did not discuss the extermination of Jews.[14] The documentary evidence of this meeting, however, shows that no extermination program existed. Instead, the German policy was to evacuate the Jews into recently conquered territories to the East.
Revisionists have also been persecuted in countries where questioning the Holocaust story is still legal. Canadian revisionist Ernst Zündel was tried in 1985 and 1988 in Toronto, Canada for the alleged crime of knowingly publishing “false news.” All Zündel had ever done was publicly dispute the Holocaust story. Even though Zündel won both cases on appeal, he continued to be attacked and persecuted in Canada. In 1995 his Toronto residence was the target of an arson attack resulting in over $400,000 of damages. Zündel was also the recipient of a parcel bomb that was defused by the Toronto Police bomb squad.
[20] Staeglich, Wilhelm, Auschwitz: A Judge Looks at the Evidence, Institute for Historical Review, 1990, pp. 238-239.
[16] Kulaszka, Barbara, (ed.), Did Six Million Really Die: Report of Evidence in the Canadian `False News' Trial of Ernst Zündel, Toronto: Samisdat Publishers Ltd., 1992, p. 352.
Finally he was sent to Block 13, the block of the Sonderkommandos, where he was assigned to work in Crematorium III. So let’s see the description of a gassing (pp. 86-91). The first stage was as follows:
An alleged German anti-partisan activity at Oradour-sur-Glane in France killed 642 villagers on June 10, 1944. The SS Panzer Division “Das Reich” was held fully responsible for this atrocity.[35] However, French revisionist Vincent Reynouard’s examination of the physical evidence at Oradour-sur-Glane throws into question the official narrative. Reynouard discovered that the corpses of the men were completely charred, and looked like typical victims of a fire. The corpses of the women and children, however, had been torn to pieces, and looked like victims of an explosion. The remnants of the church also clearly show that it was destroyed by one or more explosions.[36]
“This diabolical chamber was about 30 meters long, 15 meters wide and 3.5 meters high.”
Goldman’s short essay drew a quick and furious response from Dejan Ristic, the acting director of the Serbian Museum of Genocide Victims. It was published in the Jerusalem Post just two days after Goldman’s original piece. Serbia, of course, has an incentive to promote high numbers of victims, and especially high numbers of Serbs, because it enhances their victimhood status and promotes their nationalist agenda. But more important than high numbers is the overall integrity of the camp as a legitimate Holocaust site and not as a whimsical political ragdoll that has victim numbers ranging over nearly three orders of magnitude, and that is entirely lacking in relevant evidence.
Debating’s supreme virtue since its first publication has been in the volume’s broadly covering all major factors in such debate of the Holocaust as can be conducted in the shadow of censorship and criminalization. This being the case, the work’s currency is of greater importance to its value than it would be, say, to a work of a more purely historical bent. It’s gratifying to report that this edition is as up-to-the-minute as any fixed body of work could be; anything and everything that changed since the first edition is updated, and corrections to the earlier work made as appropriate. Dalton even revised his best estimate of the number of Holocaust fatalities implied by the sum of the latest revisionist studies, of which there have been many. Dalton’s expressly unmagical number of aggregate deaths per revisionism rose from 516,000 to 570,000. At this rate, he’ll be back to six million by the 5,990th edition. Don’t hold your breath!
We are delighted that the Labor party has voted for legislation to make it a criminal offense to deny the Holocaust…The Board of Deputies believes that the unique nature of the Holocaust justifies exceptional measures to prevent the willful and malicious falsification of history by neo-Nazi supporters…Denial forms a part of a political agenda which regards the Holocaust as a Jewish fabrication calculated to gain the sympathy of the world. Postwar societies have a duty to resist Nazism in all its guises and to reinforce the message to future generations. Holocaust denial is a spurious trap. It has no redeeming merit…Parliament should recognize the harm caused by Holocaust denial and support the creation of a specific criminal offense.[9]
This program formed part of a larger project which had been discussed by Speer and Pohl concurrently on 15 September 1942. The day afterwards, Pohl drew up a detailed report on it for Himmler. The discussion was organized in four points, the first of which was the “Expansion of the Auschwitz Barracks Camp in Consequence of the Migration to the East” (Vergrösserung Barackenlager Auschwitz infolge Ostwanderung). On this point, Pohl declared:
"Holocaust Denial" might be no more eccentric or no more criminal than claiming the earth is flat, except that the Holocaust itself has been used as the sword and shield in the quest to build a Jewish state between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River, where even today over half the population is not Jewish.
Holocaust Revisionists such as myself are thankful that Deborah Lipstadt—Holocaust Revisionism’s arch enemy no less!—has publicly made clear that much of this “Holocaust Survivor” testimony is false and unreliable.
In receipt of the proposal filed on 19 August 1942 by Topf engineer Kurt Prüfer during his visit to Auschwitz, the SS-Wirtschafts-Verwaltungshaupt, on 26 August, ordered the shipment to Auschwitz of two ovens based on the Mogilev order.
Culturally, socialists and communists – including a very high number of Jewish internees recently released from concentration camps or importing themselves into Germany from the USA, Britain, or elsewhere – were given virtual control of a revamped German cultural life, including theatre, music, publishing, newspapers, etc. The population was deprived of anything remotely National Socialist or nationalist in nature, and were instead fed on an imposed internationalist-socialist intellectual life. Almost literally in fact, as the starving population thirsted for music, books, etc. to take their minds off their hunger and other deprivations. MacDonogh explores the development of postwar Germany's literature in particular, as well as the various disputes between exiles and anti-Nazis who stayed in Germany throughout the war.
Let us sum up: David Irving is unable to produce any documentary evidence for the alleged mass murder at Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka. He implicitly admits that there is not a single trustworthy witness. But if there are no documents and no trustworthy witnesses, what evidence are his claims based upon?
Dr. Mengele’s alleged crimes are not proven by any document. No document shows that Mengele ever killed even one single child, or that one single child was ever killed on his orders. The essential and sole witness, the one upon whose testimony the whole accusation is based, was an extraordinarily creative impostor. Dr. Mengele’s closest collaborators, including the presumed essential witness, and at least 543 of his “victims” were allowed to live: but how, then, are we to believe seriously in the fairy tale of the “Angel of Death” of Auschwitz?
I for one expect that honest inquiry would lead to the rightful revision of this dark time in our recent history. And only by correcting the mythology of this time can we move forward to understand the events of our modern history of the past 70 years. Perhaps a “silver bullet” may still be found in the diary’s pages—a bullet that can be aimed at the hateful conspiracy theory that today goes by the name “Holocaust.”
Schulte mentions the beginning of May as the starting point for the alleged “extermination actions”, because the Kalendarium of Auschwitz states that the first selection of sick inmates occurred on 4 May 1942; these inmates are said to have been gassed in “Bunker 1”[91]. Once again, there is no documentary evidence for this.
In 1941 Greece was divided into three parts: one (the north, including most of Thrace) which was incorporated into Bulgaria, one (the largest, including Athens) under Italian jurisdiction and finally one (including Salonika and the East-Aegian area) under German jurisdiction. While the latter two parts were jointly administered by a puppet government in Athens, the Italians and the Germans were split in their treatment of the Jews. In the German jurisdiction the Jews were collected in the Salonika Ghetto during 1942. In February 1943, the first transports left the ghetto for Auschwitz. A total of 45,989 Jews are reported to have been deported from Salonika up until the cease of transports in August 1943.[42] According to Hilberg, 45,000 of them were sent to Auschwitz, whereas the rest – “privileged and foreign Jews” – were shipped to Bergen-Belsen. Yitzhak Arad, resting his argument on a railroad document as well as two eye-witnesses, suggests that at least one of the transports from Salonika in March 1943, carrying 2,800 Jews, was sent to Treblinka.[43]
Defenders of the Holocaust story also inevitably quote speeches from Adolf Hitler, Joseph Goebbels, and Heinrich Himmler or writings from Hitler, Goebbels, and Hans Frank to prove that Germany had an extermination program of Jews during the war. In fact, Himmler’s Posen speech of Oct. 4, 1943 has been called “the best evidence” to prove the Holocaust happened.[32] Himmler states in this speech:[33]
Although the definition I presented has been widely accepted, both by those who affirm and by those who contest or “revise” the current narrative of the Holocaust, and although the facts I presented were not challenged, the op-ed sparked a classic case of ritual defamation. Questioning the Holocaust narrative, or even defining what it means to question it, is arguably the most serious taboo in the United States today. It is considered “beyond the pale” and even touching the subject is like touching the third rail on the subway – instant death to your career.
American attorney Willis N. Everett, Jr. was assigned to defend the 74 German defendants accused in the Malmédy incident. The trial took place from May 16 to July 16, 1946 before a military tribunal of senior American officers operating under rules established by the Nuremberg International Military Tribunal.[7]
We can see, then, how difficult and how meaningless it is to declare someone a “Holocaust denier.” Doing so would require a much fuller elaboration of the terms. Fundamentalists, however, never provide these facts. They prefer to slander their opponents, and leave it at that.
Rather astonishingly, the report notes with a certain amount of approbation that “It is not the denial of the Holocaust but the concomitant allegation of a ‘Jewish swindle’ that is the basis of the prosecution. Without that additional calumny against the Jews, (or, for that matter, Zionists) the mere negation of historical events does not constitute a crime under the laws of any country known to us.”[3]
“Hydrocyanic acid penetrates into the skin, the mucous membranes, and the bodily fluids. The corpse of a man who has just been killed by this powerful poison is itself a dangerous source of poisoning, and cannot be touched with bare hands. In order to enter the HCN-saturated chamber to remove the corpse, special gear is needed, as well as a gas mask with a special filter.”
Coincidentally, Mr. Jones had already formulated possible solutions to the problem of “Holocaust denial” which he submitted for the consideration of Australia’s legislators, and suggested that “Holocaust denial” should be “clearly and specifically identified as racism and covered by the same laws that will apply to more readily understood promotions of racial hatred.”[8]
“Since 2005, Echoes & Reflections has impacted more than 85,000 educators, reaching an estimated 8 million students across the United States—and at no cost. Through our Holocaust education programs and resources, educators gain the skills, knowledge, and confidence to teach this topic effectively.”
Q. Has an experiment ever been made to use another gas for these gas chambers?
In 2002, US District Court Judge Paul R. Matia claimed in his ruling that John Demjanjuk served as a guard at Camp Sobibor, circa March 27, 1943 to October 1, 1943. In regard to this alleged extermination camp, Matia asserted that the guards “assigned to Sobibor met the arriving transports of Jews, forcibly unloaded the Jews from the trains, compelled them to disrobe, and drove them into gas chambers where they were murdered by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide.” Matia charged Demjanjuk with a specific crime: “In serving at Sobibor, Defendant [John Demjanjuk] contributed to the process by which thousands of Jews were murdered by asphyxiation with carbon monoxide.”[4]
In this documentary, we will neither deal with Irving’s libel suit against Lipstadt nor with any of the publications based on it. Instead, we will go back to the roots of this entire affair, to Lipstadt’s 1993 book Denying the Holocaust. Since for the new, 2016 edition no textual changes were made, what is said about the original edition is also true for the latest edition.
Blatt provides one with a very obvious reason to be skeptical of his story. It says on the back cover of his book that Blatt survived a total of six months at Sobibor.[91] If what Blatt says is true—that Sobibor was a death factory where people were murdered and their bodies burned within a few hours of arrival—then it is logical to infer that Blatt himself should not be around to tell his story. How did Blatt survive a whole six months in the camp? Blatt makes it perfectly clear in his memoir that he never worked in the area that housed the alleged “gas chambers.” Since he was never needed for this job, why would the Germans allow him to survive a half of a year in the camp if “only a few hours passed between arrival [of Jewish prisoners] and the burning a body?”
Shlomo and Abraham Dragon claim they lived to tell their stories only because Shlomo got sick. All the other 200 Sonderkommandos in their group allegedly were transferred to Lublin and gassed. So instead of being gassed, Shlomo stayed at Birkenau, received medical treatment, convinced the SS to keep his brother with him, and both brothers lived to tell their story of mass murder at Birkenau. Like many Holocaust survivors, they both claim to have survived Birkenau through a miracle.[25]
When it was decided to move the proposed crematorium to Birkenau other conditions, too, changed quite a bit. The ground at Birkenau was so swampy and the water-table so high that the lower floor could not be put completely underground; in fact, the ceiling slab of the morgues stuck out by about 90 centimeters. The differences in the type of ground between Auschwitz and Birkenau are clearly shown in various illustrations in the van Pelt / Dwork book; the photograph of construction work in the main camp on p. 232 is particularly telling when compared to the flooded drainage ditch being dug at Birkenau, p. 193, or to the ditch on p. 323, also full of water, in the “Kanada” section.
Zofka’s aim with his paper was an attempt to “correct the image of Josef Mengele, which has been distorted and exorbitantly exaggerated by the sensational media.” He admits that, when trying to assess the crimes allegedly committed by Mengele, there is basically no documentary evidence to rely on, and that relying on witness accounts in such an atmosphere of hysteria is problematic, to say the least. He continuous by stating:
The problem is that no such van has ever been found. Nobody has ever seen a blueprint, or a photograph, of these mythical vehicles.[37] The Holocaust historians regularly refer to two documents allegedly proving the use of homicidal gas vans, the "Just document"[38] and the Becker document"[39], but as French revisionist Pierre Marais has irrefutably demonstrated in his vitally important study about the subject[40], these documents are grotesque forgeries. But perhaps Dr. Lindtner has not found the time to read this book because he was too busy studying the "German scholars"!
4. My ritual defamers said that “denying undisputed facts of the holocaust (sic) is not a way to show support for the Palestinians.” First, the three tenets of Holocaust revisionism are clearly not “undisputed.” To the contrary, these taboos are hotly and passionately disputed; people’s lives are ruined when they dispute these “facts” or even mention them. In fourteen countries you can get jail time for disputing “facts” surrounding the Holocaust.
In the “authoritative” Holocaust history books consulted, I cannot find any mention of “specially adapted cement-mixer apparatuses” for the disposal of murdered Holocaust victims.[36] There is not one iota of physical evidence to show that these devices ever existed. No one has ever found one to show the world, and no authentic engineering diagrams of these devices have ever been uncovered. If I am wrong, then it is up to Deborah Lipstadt to provide us with the physical evidence.
Why did this crowd of frightened and naked people move at all? Well, somewhere behind them there were ferocious SS men with whips, and possibly dogs, yelling at them to move ahead, but as soon as the first ones to reach the gas chamber would have realized that there were no real showers, shouted that it was all fake and tried to make their way back against the advancing crowd, one can easily imagine that all would come to a stand-still in the narrow passage and the vestibule. The cordon of SS-men at the rear could beat the hell out of the poor naked people near them, but that would not hurt those further away; panic would ensue, with corpses piling up in the constricted space of the passage and the vestibule, and the dozen or so SS men somewhere at the back would be in great danger of being torn to pieces by the desperate crowd of hundreds of people milling around them.
When Germany became a League member, evidence of terrorism against the German minority in Poland carried more weight. In 1931, the League Council unanimously accepted a report "essentially substantiating the charges against the Poles." But again no effective action was taken. The British delegates had "frankly adopted the view that where German minorities were concerned, it was for the German Government to look after their interests."[27] After 1933, a German government chose to do exactly that, in its own savage way.[28] Back in January 1917, Wilson had addressed Congress on the nature of the settlement, once the terrible war was over: it must be a peace without victory.… Victory would mean peace forced upon the loser, a victor's terms imposed upon the vanquished. It would be accepted in humiliation, under duress, at an intolerable sacrifice, and would leave a sting, a resentment, a bitter memory upon which terms of peace would rest, not permanently, but only as upon quicksand.[29]
Alarmed by the banning of revisionist thought in Europe, Crowell originally took up Holocaust research in order to rescue intellectual freedom from the Holocaust witch hunts of the 1990s, ironically doing so under an assumed name (he fears for the safety of his family). He correctly points out that the censorship crusade against revisionism represents nothing other than "the censorship of historical investigation itself," and notes with considerable relief that it appears to be losing steam. After years of beatings, fire-bombings, heresy trials, and book shreddings, designed to suppress what is openly branded a species of historical blasphemy, one can only hope and pray that this judgment is correct.
“The roots of Barnes’s views about the Holocaust and his attitudes toward Israel go beyond his deep-seated Germanophilia and revisionist approach to history: They can be found in his antisemitism.” (p. 91)
[9] For example, see Bauer, Yehuda, A History of the Holocaust, New York: Franklin Watts, 1982, p. 209.
[6] Kulaszka, Barbara, (ed.), Did Six Million Really Die: Report of Evidence in the Canadian “False News” Trial of Ernst Zündel, Toronto: Samisdat Publishers  Ltd., 1992, pp. 362-363.
In the first place, very many commentators (politicians, journalists, public figures, letter writers and others) on the issue have felt it appropriate or necessary to condemn “Holocaust denial” or “Holocaust deniers” in their statements. It is astonishing just how many have done so, almost always, if not always, with no attempt to defend their point by reasoned argument or evidence. In order to show just how pervasive this behavior has been, I propose to list most of my collected examples in an endnote.[108] There are thirty-six examples there. By contrast there has been an almost total absence of support published for revisionist historians who query the received account of the Holocaust. The Age published a letter by me on 11th November 2013 touching on that view. I related “necessary protections against racial discrimination” (which the paper had editorially advocated) to the London Declaration on Combating Anti-Semitism and wrote: “For too long certain groups and individuals, in Australia and overseas, have sought to use legislation against ‘racial vilification and hatred’ to further their own interests at the expense of the intellectual freedom of others.” On 28th March 2014 The Australian published a letter by me in which I noted that “while there have been a number of derisory comments about Holocaust deniers, there has been no serious and informed debate about the overseas persecution of revisionist historians and whether we want that here.”[109] The paper also published two letters by me defending Fredrick Töben. In one I suggested that “he is better described as a Holocaust revisionist, signifying that he has had the courage to challenge aspects of a key dogma of the age.”[110] In the other I wrote that my earlier letter had “sought explicitly to balance an unfairly negative image of the man and implicitly to protest at a person being made a social pariah because he has expressed unpopular and controversial views.”[111] The Australian also published a letter in which I noted that “overseas, another problem has been that judges may take judicial notice of certain issues under contention, which means the position of one side is taken as gospel truth and the other side barred from even putting an argument.”[112] In yet another published letter I commented that “an unwelcome adverse criticism of a person or a group or an accepted view of history may be perceived by some as vilification when it is valid intellectual dissent.”[113] These letters were merely a drop in the ocean of hostile comment about Holocaust deniers.
Now, Elie Wiesel, who reputedly disagreed vehemently with Wiesenthal on this question, was in communication with President Carter. He was in fact the chairman of the President's Commission on the Holocaust. Do you think that Elie Wiesel, or any other Jew, made efforts to impress upon President Carter that he should not say that there were 11 million victims of the Holocaust, during the period when efforts were being made to establish the Holocaust Museum? I would wager that he did not, just as Jews probably did not argue during the war against claims that Poles were being exterminated.
Roeder disputed the statement attributed to him and contested a taped recording of the speech that was introduced into evidence, claiming that the item had been tampered with by a member of the “Jewish Reuters Press Agency.”[41]
“While I did my best to represent the real and decent justice and to prevent a justice of hate, there were a number of persons who repeatedly brought in false or unfounded accusations against the German prisoners, and who, by means of obviously perjured witnesses gained successes before the military courts, which did not accord with the real facts. As a result of such miscarriages of justice, many were unfortunately sentenced although not guilty, and some of them were executed. Of the great trials in Dachau it was especially the Malmedy Trial and the Mauthausen and Buchenwald Concentration Camp Trials which became – during my stay in Dachau but without any involvement on my part in the trials – infamous due to their malfeasances."
While Cole’s summary may come laced with a bit more anti-Nazi editorial invective than is typically found in the currents of dissident Holocaust scholarship, his take on the history of Auschwitz in particular pretty much distills to a grounded recitation of revisionist theory, at least insofar as he rejects the standard claim that the site was renovated to be an ever-efficient killing factory during the latter phase of the war. In his more detailed treatment, where Jean-Claude Pressac’s work figures prominently, he deftly summarizes myriad forensic and chronological problems to advance the openly revisionist conclusion that the most infamous extermination camps were nothing of the kind.
Holocaust revisionism, the theory that the traditional view of the Jewish Holocaust contains lies, exaggerations and other falsehoods, is a serious threat to Zionist power and the German government that is subservient to Israeli/Zionist interests. Various governments have resorted to “war crimes trials” to combat its phenomenal growth. Indeed, Israel’s former Attorney General, Yitzhak Zamir, publicly admitted that this was one of the major purposes of the Israeli Demjanjuk trial: “At a time when there are those who even deny that the Holocaust ever took place, it is important to remind the world of what a fascist regime is capable of…and in this respect the Demjanjuk trial will fulfill an important function.”[125]
Acknowledging the possibility that some of the categories might have been slightly underestimated, we thus have statistical accounts covering the fates of the 140,000 Dutch Jews. We are moreover aided by the fact that the Germans kept precise records of the transports. The mainstream historians of course assert that much of said record keeping served as a “camouflage”, and that the vast majority of the Dutch deportees to Auschwitz and Sobibór were gassed there on arrival without being entered into camp registries: about 33,313 of the 34,313 Sobibór deportees[30] and 38,231 of the 60,085 Auschwitz deportees[31] are claimed to have met with this fate, which according to the revisionist hypothesis means that approximately 71,554 Dutch Jews were deported to the occupied eastern territories.
Bishop Farrell says that the remains of the camps themselves prove the Holocaust and the death of six million Jews is a historical fact. But is this so?
Traditional historians and academics are all forced to uphold the Holocaust story to keep their jobs. Most historians write as if all aspects of the “Holocaust” are well-documented and irrefutable. For example, one historian who laments the outlawing of Holocaust revisionism states: “The Holocaust is an incontestable fact.”[36] However, major aspects of the Holocaust story are easily contestable. It is a felony in many European countries to question the “Holocaust” because major aspects of the Holocaust story are easy to disprove.
The “weapons of mass destruction” of Adolf Hitler – his alleged homicidal gas chambers and gas vans – existed no more than did the “weapons of mass destruction” of Saddam Hussein. The lie and the liars behind the stories of 1944 under the aegis of Franklin Roosevelt – with the War Refugee Board, set up by Henry Morgenthau, Jr. – were identical in kind to those materializing under George Bush, Jr. and his Office of Special Plans, set up in 2002 by Paul Wolfowitz.
We Palestinians shall not be forgotten. Jews were victims throughout history; they suffered most under the Nazi genocide. But we are also victims of the Nazi genocide and we are victims of calculated and methodically planned ethnic cleansing and murder in the name of Zionism. For over 60 years Deir Yassin has been the most-poignant symbol of that ethnic cleansing. If Auschwitz is hallowed ground, Deir Yassin is hallowed ground as well. Jews demand that the world recognize what was done to them. We demand that the world recognize what was done to us. That is the beginning of peace and reconciliation.
Butz’s revisionist hypothesis is further supported by the fact that even academic “Holocaust experts” will have to admit that, during the war, Churchill was handed exaggerated data in regard to the number of Jewish deaths, as we have shown in this essay. Finally, Churchill’s public outcries regarding the alleged Nazi extermination of the Jews were declarations that, “coincidentally,” served British and Zionist military and political agendas.
PRESIDENT: The evidence presented to this court convinced it beyond any doubt that the Dachau Concentration Camp subjected its inmates to killings, beatings, tortures, indignities, and starvation to an extent and to a degree that necessitates the indictment of everyone, high and low, who had anything to do with the conduct and the operation of the camp. This court reiterates that, although appointed by a conquering nation as a military government court in a conquered land, it sits in judgment under international law and under such laws of humanity and customs of human behavior that is recognized by civilized people. Many of the acts committed at Camp Dachau had clearly the sanction of the high officials of the then customs of the German government itself. It is the view of this court that when a sovereign state sets itself up above reasonably recognized and constituted law or is willing to transcend readily recognizable constituted customs of human and decent treatment of persons, the individuals effecting such policies of their state must be held responsible for their part in the violation of international law and the customs and laws of humanity.
[xxvii] Ball, John Clive, “Air Photo Evidence,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, pp. 275, 284.
Denial of the non-Jewish Holocaust is really not new. Every time the figure of “6,000,000” was used as the alleged Holocaust death toll, it was an implicit statement that only Jewish deaths counted. What is new is that the exclusion of non-Jews is now emphatic and explicit.
An article by NA manager David Thomas in Archives entitled “Forgery in the Archives”[10] commented on various forgeries made throughout history, but notably and despite its title avoided any evaluation of the evidence on the basis of which Allen’s three books were being dismissed. It merely affirmed that three letterheads on “Ministry of Information” paper “had been produced using black toner probably from a laser printer,” with no explanation how such a conclusion had been reached or how one would tell the difference. He merely echoed the claim made by a journalist and pointed the finger of accusation at Allen.
What is the significance of all this? That is, the official history alleges that Sobibor was a top secret extermination camp. Yet, we have cited “evidence” from those same “official histories” that shows that the alleged exterminations and mass burnings at Sobibor were well known and not top secret.
In the various drafts of the ESC about Sachsenhausen the figure of 14,000 shot Soviet POWs regularly recurs.[17] On the other hand, the commission headed by Professor Prosorovski[18] mentioned 20,000 shooting victims (January 1947), and in April 1961, when East Germany dedicated a National Memorial Site at Sachsenhausen, yet another figure (18,000) was claimed.
Her steadfast refusal to debate those who subject her narrative of the Holocaust to tough attempts at refutation is legendary:
The most important organization in the land that publishes dissident views on Holocaust revisionism and other ethnic controversies is the Australian League of Rights, but it appears to have little influence and was not included to any significant degree by The Australian and The Age in their coverage of the 2012-2014 debate. Perhaps the most encouraging sign is the large number of voices that defended free speech in The Australian. In the meantime, however, we are licking our wounds after a most unwelcome reversal of fortune.
The 1999 film about Leuchter features an interview with the chemist [Dr. James Roth] who had done the analysis of his wall-samples back in 1988. He had done this “blind,” i.e. with no knowledge of where they had come from, which was correct scientific procedure. During the second Zündel trial in Toronto in 1988 he testified under oath concerning the method used and what Leuchter had sent him. He said back then that hydrogen cyanide can easily penetrate into brick and mortar. But then, when he was interviewed again by Morris for his documentary, he suddenly stated that the results were quite meaningless, because the cyanide could only have soaked a few microns into the brickwork. Wow, that was quite a whopper. Mortar and brickwork are highly porous to hydrogen cyanide, obviously so because the delousing chambers were more or less equally blue inside and out, it had soaked right through. But you can watch him on video explaining this, as if he were confusing brick and mortar with rock. The latter will only absorb cyanide to a few microns of its surface.[9]
The position of Holocaust historiography with regard to the matter was summarised by Vlasta Kladivová:
A puzzle: Blaha claims the chamber was completed only in 1944, but experts today insist that it was part of the original construction that began in 1942. The NYT reported on Blaha’s testimony in November 1945, dramatically stating that he was “assigned to work in the death chamber of the hospital”—meaning, of course, the mortuary. Blaha told of decapitations and the creation of shrunken heads, and of skin made into “gloves, lampshades, riding breeches, house-slippers, handbags” and other items (all such claims have since been completely discredited, putting Blaha’s credibility into serious doubt). He also recalled “the wholesale execution of Russian prisoners in a gas chamber… He declared that a quick death in the gas chamber had been meted out to the sick prisoners transferred to Dachau from other camps” (Nov. 17, p. 7).
One is the question of the bias in favour of the accusers of the major mass media. There is much evidence to suggest that the ‘fourth estate’ has actively assisted the pursuers, while offering no balancing assistance to the defendants. For example, the three major Melbourne newspapers during the past seven years have published a number of opinion articles hostile to Zentai,[97 ] but none favourable to him. The Australian has published editorials suggesting that it could well be correct to extradite Zentai[98] and indeed that he should be extradited.[99] Zuroff himself has provided an account of media assistance for the campaign: ‘Now the question was whether Zentai was still alive and healthy enough to stand trial. I enlisted the help of a sympathetic Australian investigative journalist for the task….. his [Zentai’s]health had still to be verified. For this task, we teamed up with Channel Nine News in Australia which sent a team to film Zentai without his knowledge.’[100] In 2005 a journalist for The Australian reported that evidence against Zentai had been ‘uncovered and translated’ by the newspaper.[101]
Various witnesses also disagreed with each other about the structures of the gas chambers, some saying that they were made of wood, others saying they were made of brick, still others claiming that they were made of stone.
Or, pour R. Hilberg, qui est l’historien sur l’holocauste le plus respecté au monde (du moins ceux qui y croient), il n’y a pas eu plus de 2 millions de victimes en URSS (y compris l’Ukraine, la Biélorussie, la Pologne annexée, la Moldavie et les Pays baltes), soit 2 fois moins que n’en compte le Yad Vashem ; il ne resterait donc qu’un seul million de noms à répertorier. On n’en arriverait toutefois qu’à un total de 4 millions. Total tout à fait invraisemblable d’ailleurs dans lequel nous avons vu on retrouverait (pour ne prendre que quelques exemples) :
The first historian ever permitted to examine the deciphered messages from Bletchley Park was Richard Breitman. In his book, Official Secrets: What the Nazis Planned, What the British and Americans Knew,[14] published in 1998, Breitman made serious accusations against the Allies. As indicated in the translation back to English of the German translation of his book – State Secrets: Nazi Crimes Tolerated by the Allies [Staatsgeheimnisse: Die Verbrechen der Nazis – von den Alliierten toleriert], he accuses the British and Americans of having known about the Holocaust from the very beginning, but of deliberately concealing this information. In particular, he accused Cavendish-Bentinck of rejecting the “Information from Polish and Jewish sources as invented.”[15] This accusation is, however, entirely unjustified. Why should Cavendish-Bentinck have accorded credibility to unreliable reports when he was in possession of reliable radio messages from Auschwitz itself?
Even preeminent British Hitler expert Ian Kershaw could not do much better. The Soviet archives were opened up in the early 1990s; “predictably, a written order by Hitler for the ‘Final Solution’ was not found. The presumption that a single explicit written order had ever been given had long been dismissed by most historians” (2008: 96). Rather, this most momentous destruction of human life occurred via “improvised bureaucratic initiatives whose dynamic prompted a process of ‘cumulative radicalization’ in the fragmented structures of decision-making in the Third Reich” (p. 94)—a statement hardly more coherent than Hilberg’s.
As for the Theresienstadt transport departing on 13 June 1942, the Terezin Studies website[14] lists a transport designated "AAi" as departing for an "unknown" destination on this date. The Dachau transport in June 1942 is yet more mysterious. We may recall here that the Swedish-Jewish periodical Judisk Krönika in its issue from October 1942 reported that Jews from Dachau and other German concentration camps had been deported to Pinsk for drainage work (cf. §3.1.3. above). Mainstream historiography knows of no transports of Jews from Dachau to the occupied eastern territories. It is documented that there were transports from Dachau to two of the "extermination camps", namely Auschwitz and Majdanek. The number of these deportees amounted to 4,767 and 2,933 respectively. However, Danuta Czech lists no transports as arriving to Auschwitz from Dachau during June 1942, and the only known transports from Dachau to Majdanek took place in January and February 1944.[15] The purported Dachau transport to Belarus remains an enigma.
Born in Brooklyn in 1933 to recent Jewish immigrants from Europe, Stanley Milgram was haunted most of his life by the Holocaust he narrowly missed. By the time he had gained his Ph.D. from Harvard and joined the faculty of Yale in 1960, he conceived a way to recreate at least what he supposed was the psychological milieu of the Holocaust: following orders to kill (or torture) strangers. It was, he revealed outside his formal publications, what SS guards must have done and felt—or not felt—as they herded crowds of innocent Jews to their deaths in gas chambers.
Suvorov’s estimates of deaths at Soviet-run Buchenwald are probably understated. Some sources estimate that at least 13,000 and as many as 21,000 persons died in Soviet-run Buchenwald.[7] Also, a detailed June 1945 U.S. government report on  German-run Buchenwald put the total deaths at a lower number of 33,462, of whom more than 20,000 died in the final chaotic months of the war. These total deaths include at least 400 inmates killed in British bombing raids.[8] Thus, the death-rate percentage at the Soviet-run Buchenwald versus the German-run Buchenwald is probably substantially higher than Suvorov’s estimates.
Former prisoners have also reported numerous instances of prisoners and civilians who were shot by American and French guards. Paul Kaps, a German soldier who was in the U.S. camp at Bad Kreuznach, wrote, “In one night, May 8, 1945, 48 prisoners were shot dead in Cage 9.” Prisoner Hanns Scharf witnessed an especially gruesome killing when a German woman with her two children asked an American guard at Bad Kreuznach to give a wine bottle to her husband, who was just inside the wire. The guard drank the wine himself, and when the bottle was empty the guard killed the prisoner with five shots. The other prisoners protested, and U.S. Army Lt. Holtsman said: “This is awful. I’ll make sure there is a stiff court-martial.” No evidence of a court-martial of this or any other similar incidents has ever been found.[20]
Board Chief Executive Neville Nagler opined, “Our view is that this is not a matter of free speech. Denying the Holocaust is an anti-Semitic stance that is intended to cause offense.”[17]
“At that time, i.e. in late May and early June 1942, the clandestine press published reports on two camps in Treblinka: the labor camp and the death camp. The first reference to the killing center there is to be found in a text by Gutkowski entitled ‘The Scroll of Agony and Destruction,’ which probably constitutes the draft of an Oneg Shabbat press bulletin. In the entry dated May 29, 1942, we read: ‘There are two camps in Treblinka: a labor camp and a death camp. In the death camp people are not murdered by shooting (the criminals are saving ammunition), but by means of a lethal rod [in the Yiddish original: troytshtekn].’ This item, without mention of the ‘lethal rod,’ was printed on June 2, 1942 by the newspaper Yedies. The next issue of that paper, dated June 9, 1942, carried an article entitled ‘The Death Camp in Trenblinka [sic]’ In it we read:
Ruins of Krema 2 in Auschwitz-Birkenau.
The shipments were made by DEGESCH through the Dessau factory to the attention of SS-Obersturmführer Kurt Gerstein. The recipient was the Depatment for Disinfestation and Pest Control Auschwitz (Abt. Entwesung und Entseuchung). The bills were attached by Gerstein to his famous report of April 26, 1945 (PS-1553).
The remarkable thing about Alsos is that Goudsmit claimed to see documentation that his parents had died in a German gas chamber. Goudsmit wrote: “The world has always admired the Germans for their orderliness. They are so systematic; they have such a sense of correctness. That is why they kept such precise records of their evil deeds, which we later found in their proper files in Germany. And that is why I know the precise date my father and my blind mother were put to death in the gas chamber. It was my father’s 70th birthday.”[19]
Zyklon B, which is liquid hydrogen cyanide (HCN) absorbed on diatomaceous earth or gypsum granules, started its innocuous career in the 1920s as a disinfestation agent. The broad consensus today is that during the Second World War this product was used to kill hundreds of thousands (or millions) of Jews in homicidal gas chambers, in German wartime camps. But a consensus also seems to exist that Zyklon B was used throughout the German system of concentration and labour camps for its originally intended purpose: the disinfestation of inmate living quarters, clothes, linens and mattresses. It was the advent of DDT and its successors, just as the war was ending, which reduced the use of HCN for disinfestation purposes to a niche market.
When I visited Copenhagen in 1997 and 1998, I had several lengthy discussions with Danish revisionist Dr. Christian Lindtner, a Sanskrit scholar and expert in the history of Buddhism. Lindtner impressed me with his extraordinary knowledge of classical languages, and he seemed to be thoroughly familiar with the revisionist arguments. Therefore I was very glad when I learned in December 2006, during the Holocaust Conference in Tehran, that he had been chosen as a member of the committee for the promotion of revisionist research. (Later this committee turned out to be completely useless, as it did precisely nothing.)
Wennerstrum stated: “The entire atmosphere is unwholesome…Lawyers, clerks, interpreters, and researchers were employed who became Americans only in recent years, whose backgrounds were embedded in Europe’s hatreds and prejudices…If I had known seven months ago what I know today, I would never have come here…The high ideals announced as the motives for creating these tribunals have not been evident.” The lack of appeal in the Nuremberg cases left Wennerstrum “with a feeling that justice has been denied.”[3]
Keith Lowe is a professional historian in every sense, most of them good. He is not only diligent, energetic, insightful, and scrupulous, he is also imaginative in the best ways, and an engaging writer of prose. Being young, he has his career ahead of him and his first, and only other, book on the market is Inferno: The Devastation of Hamburg, 1943. That book, perhaps like David Irving’s 1963 best-seller, The Destruction of Dresden, might be a bit too sympathetic to the people who instigated the Holocaust to support the rising career of a historian of Twentieth-Century Europe. And for understandable reasons, Lowe does not wish to suffer the fate of David Irving, whose contract to publish Goebbels—Mastermind of the Third Reich was cancelled under pressure from groups who branded Irving a “Holocaust denier.” That contract, as it happens, was with St. Martin’s Press, the publisher of this very book.
The Russian prisoners of war deported to Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen were free game; any SS thug could kill them according to his desire and mood. One Sunday afternoon three Russian soldiers were standing at the camp gate. On the spur of the moment the Blockführers decided to use them for target practice.
[8] https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Mr. Death; Richard J. Green, “Report of Richard J. Green”, introduced in evidence during the libel case before the Queen’s Bench Division, Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London, David John Caldwell Irving  v. (1) Penguin Books Limited, (2) Deborah E. Lipstadt, ref. 1996 I. No. 1113, 2001, p. 16; http://www.phdn.org/archives/holocaust-history.org/irving-david/rudolf/affweb.pdf,
One of the points they scrutinize in particular with respect to this change of purpose and location is the access to the basement morgues. In the proposed design for Auschwitz, in late 1941, an entryway to a lower floor was located within the building and included, between two parallel flights of stairs, an item that the authors call a chute. The upper end of this stairway connected to a landing with a door towards the outside; the lower end was located in a vestibule from which an elevator provided the connection with the furnace room. Dwork and van Pelt attribute great importance to the fact that, when the original drawings were adapted for the Birkenau site, the SS design office did away with this chute. They argue that the reason for this modification was a change in the intended use of the crematorium – originally, “corpses were dropped through a chute but now live victims would walk to their death.”
As is known, in the heart of Auschwitz there is an emblematic gas chamber. Up to now thirty million tourists have visited it. It is an imposture; all the historians are aware of this, as the authorities of the Auschwitz State Museum know better than anyone. Yet UNESCO (the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), on October 26, 1979, at the request of the Polish government, put this camp on its list of World Heritage and Cultural Property Sites, thus assuming the duty of preserving its authenticity. For my part, I suggest therefore that the matter of this fraud be formally referred to UNESCO, as it constitutes an offence against education, science and culture. In a more general manner, we could take up the words of Jean-Gabriel Cohn Bendit in 1979: "Let us fight for the destruction of those gas chambers they show tourists in the camps where there were none, as we now know” (Libération, March 5, 1979, p. 4).
Though I cannot elaborate here, there is ample evidence that the Pearl Harbor attack was effectively a false flag event. While obviously not directly conducting the attack, Roosevelt did everything possible to encourage and allow the Japanese to strike—and then to feign shock when it actually happened. Below are the key elements of that story.[49]
She was forced to look at photographs, images of Dachau. “I hid my face in my hands,” she recalled, as if the ordeal of viewing them equaled the horrors they depicted. She was not permitted to look away from the “gigantic eyes peering helplessly into the camera” from the hells of Dachau, Auschwitz, Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen, and other death camps of which, she told the Americans, she had known nothing.[23]
The Holocaust, that is to say its major events, is basically covered in Part I (140 pages), so we will focus on that. Parts II and III deal with other topics.
On January 16, 1985, under cross-examination at the first Ernst Zündel trial in Toronto, Raul Hilberg confirmed that he said these words.[8] Thus, Hilberg stated that the genocide of European Jewry was not carried out by a plan or order, but rather by an incredible mind reading among far-flung German bureaucrats.
In view of the Red Army's rapid advance to the west, at the end of June 1944, the Hitlerite hangmen devised a new method for the mass extermination of Soviet civilians. On June 29-30 they started taking inmates of the concentration camps and the bodies of those who had been shot to the village of Maly Trostinets. The corpses were stacked up in sheds, where the Germans also shot Soviet people, and the sheds were then set on fire. Savinskaya, who escaped death, stated to the Investigation Commission:
It all started with several participants of a Stormfront blog picking up on Yad Vashem’s fraudulent way of maximizing the number of names of alleged Holocaust victims stored in their database. One of the individuals in that discussion was Dr. Mirko Viola, who, together with three others, ended up being arrested, among other things for allegedly mocking the victims of the Holocaust. I will not dwell here on his case, which involves many political hot-button topics outside of the ambit of what CODOH and IH usually address.
Guilt pervades Germany as a result of the Allied propaganda campaign. German guilt is so powerful that it has caused the German government to make enormous reparation payments and offer humble apologies to the Allies, while ignoring the atrocities committed by the Allies against the German people. Millions of German expellees have paid reparations to survivors of the German concentration camps even though these German expellees had their land and personal possessions taken from them without compensation. German schoolchildren are repeatedly taught about crimes committed by National Socialist Germany, with little or nothing ever taught about their ancestors’ tragic sufferings.[24]
A. I knew that Auschwitz was a very big camp.[107]
Extant documents from the German wartime authorities in France, Belgium and the Netherlands are more detailed about the persons deported to Auschwitz, since among them are lists containing not only the exact number of deportees sent to Auschwitz with every transport, but also the deportees’ names, among other things. Hence it is known that not every person deported on a certain train to Auschwitz was admitted to that camp on the train’s arrival (the journey usually took two days). The central question is: what happened to the persons put on a train at the point of origin who were not registered at the Auschwitz Camp? The (obligatory) mainstream hypothesis is that, by and large, these persons simply perished “in the gas chambers” at Auschwitz.
After the outbreak of the war, that policy was changed. Resettlement instead of emigration was the new plan:
At the very least, this divergent testimony should give a true believer in the Holocaust, such as Judge Matia, a reason to be skeptical of the traditional Sobibor extermination story.
The nature of the vehicle in Fleming’s photo was revealed only in 1995, when Jerzy Halbersztadt, at that time director of the Polish Program of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, DC, posted the following text to the newsgroup Holocaust:[2]
As we will see below [in later chapters of this book; Ed.], these are more pieces of evidence allowing us to reconstruct the history of Höss’s first statement. Schwerin von Krosigk, by the way, never set foot inside the Auschwitz Camp.
"At the Sachsenhausen concentration camp near Berlin the German authorities annihilated more than 100,000 citizens of the USSR, England, France, Poland, Holland, Belgium, Hungary and other states.“
Though a Conservative MP, Churchill began berating the Conservative governments, first Baldwin's and then Chamberlain's, for their alleged blindness to the Nazi threat. He vastly exaggerated the extent of German rearmament, formidable as it was, and distorted its purpose by harping on German production of heavy bombers. This was never a German priority, and Churchill's fabrications were meant to demonstrate a German design to attack Britain, which was never Hitler's intention. At this time, Churchill busily promoted the Grand Alliance[66] that was to include Britain, France, Russia, Poland, and Czechoslovakia. Since the Poles, having nearly been conquered by the Red Army in 1920, rejected any coalition with the Soviet Union, and since the Soviets' only access to Germany was through Poland, Churchill's plan was worthless.
So finally, how many Jews perished according to Cesarani? This is interesting. First, the six million figure is nowhere to be found (actually it appears once but refers to Germans). In the Introduction Cesarani writes that around 1.5 million Jews were shot on the eastern front while 960,000 were murdered at Auschwitz, although at the end of the book he puts the number at 900,000 (p. 747). Along with 1,700,000 Jews killed at the “Aktion Reinhard” camps and 97,000+ at Chelmno, this adds up to a number of around 4,200,000. Meaning that according to the mainstream academics, we can rest assured that the 6,000,000 number is gone for good. Perhaps this will be the tactic from now on. Focus on the numbers piecemeal and avoid totals.
[18] See trial transcript, pp. 846-848. Also Kulaszka, Barbara, (ed.), Did Six Million Really Die: Report of Evidence in the Canadian “False News” Trial of Ernst Zündel, Toronto: Samisdat Publishers  Ltd., 1992, p. 24.
To sum up, the atomic bombings were entirely unnecessary and were in fact acts of genocide that mostly targeted non-combatant civilians resulting in huge numbers of fatalities. To paraphrase F. J. P. Veale's famous critique of the modern world, the usage of these indiscriminate weapons were far from being a military 'advance'. They were rather a 'return to barbarism'.
The degree to which The Holocaust by Bullets has been hailed as a seminal work of historic significance and the extraordinary naivety with which its findings have been accepted in the absence of critical appraisal would be incomprehensible were it not for the fact that it deals with the Shoah. Was the story concocted by Monique de Waels in the hoax Misha: A Mémoire of the Holocaust Years any less probable than several phenomena we have identified in The Holocaust by Bullets?
The anecdote of the child found alive in the gas chamber, set forth by Venezia with a wealth of details, parties an example of the hyperdramatic fabrications characteristic of this type of literature, like that of the relatives whom one meets in the gas chamber[195]. For example, M. Nyiszli dedicates an entire chapter to this anecdote: in this tale, the victim in question is a girl[196]. Venezia refers, instead, to finding a girl two months old, alive, in the gas chamber[197].
Burning books. Imprisoning those with whom you disagree. Blacklisting individuals for their ideas. The new totalitarianism comes from both sides of the political aisle. It demonstrates the worst in human instincts. It is an idea which is opposed to the true values of Americanism: the right to criticize, the right to hold unpopular beliefs, the right to protest, and the right of independent thought. It is a demonstration of the complete and utter failure to understand the most critical lesson of the Holocaust. It is an idea which would be opposed by Harry Elmer Barnes and Margaret Chase Smith alike.
Separately, think of that: Children are not supposed to have gotten beyond the camp’s railway ramp. Since they were obviously unfit for labor, the Holocaust orthodoxy has it that they were sent to the gas chamber straight away, but that’s evidently not what happened, not just with Mengele’s twin children, but in general.
The two jurists who had presided over Deckert’s case were suspended and subsequently reinstated, but prosecutors were clearly displeased by the judges’ characterization of the affable Deckert, whom they described as “an intelligent man of character and clear principles which he takes to heart…He defends those convictions with great engagement and a considerable amount of time and energy. The accused has stood up for a legitimate interest by trying to fend off further Holocaust reparation requests against Germany – half a century after the Holocaust.”[42]
Her latest endeavor, The Eichmann Trial, begins with an Introduction that discusses the court battle with Irving and the “Holocaust denial” movement, and then moves into issues other than the Eichmann case. Before we discuss the trial and testimony of Adolf Eichmann, some other important subjects that Lipstadt addresses must be examined.
The ventilation system (intake/exhaust) of the new crematorium (the future Crematorium II) of Birkenau was designed by the engineer Karl Schultze of the Topf Company on March 10, 1942. It consists of a plan of the crematorium (D-59366),[2] in vertical and horizontal sectional views, in which the ventilation system of the prospective Morgue #1 – here called “B.Raum” (Belüfteter Raum, ventilated room) is very well highlighted. See Document 1. This ventilation system was composed of an intake pipe for the fresh air supply (Frischluftkanal) of green color, as well as an exhaust pipe for the stale air (Abluftkanal) of blue color.
No mention of the construction of the Birkenau camp for 100,000 Kriegsgefangene, which is also a bit of a misnomer, because the POWs could only have been Soviets, but the Russian campaign did not even begin until 3 months later.
Evidence in the case was largely limited to the Trawniki ID card and the fading memories of a few purported eyewitnesses. The case seemed to be unraveling when it was revealed that star prosecution eyewitness Eliahu Rosenberg had made a statement in 1947 that he had killed Ivan of Treblinka in August of 1943.
- David Handwohl. 10 camps including Majdanek and the three Auschwitz camps.
Inside the Gas Chambers, by Carlo Mattogno. The Barnes Review, Washington, DC, 267 pp. $25
The first name that needs to be challenged is the first word of all: “Holocaust.” In his address to the Institute for Historical Review in 1992 David Irving commented about this term: “It's a word I don’t like using….. I mistrust words with a capital letter. They look like a trademark….. You get the impression that it is a neatly packaged, highly promoted operation, and you don't trust it.” Richard J. Evans also queried the term and explained why he preferred not to use it.[3] He noted that a holocaust is the bringing of a burnt offering and that the word is inapplicable to the treatment of Jews by Germany during World War Two. As it is currently used, the term seems to have been infused with a kind of magical significance, like an incantation or a positive taboo before which all must bow down. It seems that a correct name for what Curtis wishes to discuss might be “Germany’s treatment of Jews during the period of Nazi rule between 1933 and 1945.” Notice that such a term lacks glamour and is unwieldy, but that it also does not beg any questions. It leaves the topic open for intelligent debate. To use the term “Holocaust” as Curtis does in 2014 is to at once assert an interpretation of the topic without even stating it, let alone defining and defending a particular point of view on it. In short, the term functions as a debate-stopper.
The Jewish jurists were also highly critical of Bradley Smith’s Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust, articulating their displeasure over the fact that the organization regularly sends “information packets” through the U. S. mail to college newspapers and “takes out advertisements for videos and books that claim Allied soldiers faked evidence of the Holocaust.”[33]
As with any murder, we, as investigators, would like to examine several aspects of the crime; these would include the motive, the means by which it was conducted, and the bodies of the victims. We would furthermore like to consider all ancillary and related evidence that might support, or refute, the traditional story. As we will see, all these areas are problematic, from the conventional standpoint.
This new line of German thinking is breathtaking in its unfairness. It incorrectly assumes that some German concentration camps were used for the sole purpose of exterminating Jews when, in fact, none of them was. Moreover, this German law finds a person guilty merely for being at any camp. People can be found guilty of a crime even when no evidence is presented that they committed a crime. Jewish groups such as the Simon Wiesenthal Center have been prosecuting and convicting other elderly German guards under this line of German legal thinking.[36]
Another delicate subject: what to do about the falsifications bequeathed by the Communist administration? In the fifties and sixties, several buildings which had either disappeared or been put to other use were reconstructed, with serious errors, and presented as genuine. Some, too “new”, were closed to the public. To say nothing of the delousing chambers that were at times presented as execution gas chambers. These aberrations have been of great service to the negationists, who have drawn on them for the main substance of their fabrications. The example of crematorium I, the lone one at Auschwitz I, is significant. In its morgue was installed the first gas chamber. It functioned for a short time, in early 1942: the isolation of the zone, called for by the gassings, disrupted the camp’s activity. It was therefore decided, towards the end of April 1942, to transfer these lethal gassings to Birkenau, where they were carried out, on essentially Jewish victims, on an industrial scale. Crematorium I was subsequently turned into an air-raid shelter, with an operating room. In 1948, during the museum’s creation, crematorium I was reconstituted in its supposed original state. Everything in it is false: the gas chamber’s dimensions, the location of the doors, the openings for the pouring in of the Zyklon B, the ovens, rebuilt according to what the survivors remembered, the height of the chimney. In the late 1970’s, Robert Faurisson exploited these falsifications all the better as the museum administration balked at acknowledging them. An American negationist has recently shot a video inside the gas chamber (still presented as authentic): in it he can be seen addressing his “revelations” to the visitors. Jean-Claude Pressac, one of the first to establish exactly the history of this gas chamber and its modifications during and after the war, proposes that it be restored to its 1942 state, basing his suggestion on the German blueprints that he has recently found in the Soviet archives. Others, like Théo Klein, prefer to leave it in its present state, whilst explaining the misrepresentation to the public: ‘History is what it is; it suffices to tell it, even when it is not simple, rather than to add artifice to artifice.’ Krystyna Oleksy, whose director’s office, which occupies the old SS hospital, looks straight out on to crematorium I, has not resigned herself to do so: ‘For the time being, it is to be left “as is”, with nothing specified to the visitor. It’s too complicated. We’ll see to it later on.’ ” (Eric Conan, “Auschwitz: la mémoire du mal”, L’Express, January 19-25, 1995, pages 54-69; p. 68)
In 1957 Zündel left his conquered fatherland for Canada, where he and other German immigrants were subjected to a steady stream of anti-German propaganda about gas chambers, darkening heavens, willing executioners, and their bewildering complicity in the naughtiest crime the world has ever known. Right after Zündel stepped off the boat, he seems to have stepped into his ancestors’ jackboots in order to fend off the Holocausters’ virulent regime of “truth.” After handing out leaflets and giving lectures for several years, Zündel threw together a shoestring campaign for the leadership of Canada’s powerful Liberal Party. And though he was outspent by establishment gofers who easily won the election, Zündel came away with a different sort of victory: not only did he inject his name into virtually all Canadian households, but he also won the respect of the country’s German immigrants and anti-Communists.
After a particularly obnoxious representative of the Holocaust lobby, Deborah Lipstadt, had reviled Irving in her book Denying the Holocaust [4], he sued her for libel. The trial took place in London in early 2000. Although it was unlikely that Irving would win this case, he could have scored a tremendous moral victory by making mincemeat of Lipstadt and her experts. It goes without saying that this would have required serious preparation, but Irving, who was insufficiently acquainted with the “Holocaust” subject, did not deem it necessary to study the revisionist literature before the trial. I vividly remember my dismay when I read in the Swiss Jewish newspaper Jüdische Rundschau Maccabi that Irving had “admitted the existence of the gas vans”. It was quite true: confronted with the so-called “Just document”[5] which Lipstadt’s team had presented as documentary proof for the mass murder of Jews in gas vans, Irving had declared it to be authentic, although it is a crude forgery teeming with linguistic and technical absurdities. This fake had been analyzed in detail by two revisionist researchers, the German Ingrid Weckert[6] and the Frenchman Pierre Marais.[7] Since Irving can read both German and French with the greatest ease, he had no excuse for not being familiar with these exceedingly important studies.
The obvious intent of the critics was to reformulate “Holocaust denial” laws throughout Europe ostensibly to accommodate a disputably highly influential group of people whose sensibilities had suffered umbrage. The Federal Republic of Germany seemed to offer the most encouraging possibilities for testing new legislation designed to curtail freedom of speech throughout the European Union. In fact, the compilers of the report remark favorably upon Article 130 of the German penal code, which makes it a criminal offense to “attack the human dignity of others, in a manner capable of disturbing the public peace…by insulting them, maliciously exposing them to contempt or slandering them.”
[30] Evans, Richard J., Lying About Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 158.
[W]e can now know the whole truth in all of its frightening detail. Through a magical marriage of the evidence—60-year old Soviet documents and riveting testimonies taken today, to which Father Desbois has added astonishing ballistic and forensic findings as well—we are finally able to see clearly.
In a confidential report concerning the Polish concentration camps filed with the Foreign Office, R.W.F. Bashford wrote: “[T]he concentration camps were not dismantled, but rather taken over by new owners. Mostly they are run by Polish militia. In Świętochłowice, prisoners who are not starved or whipped to death are made to stand, night after night, in cold water up to their necks, until they perish. In Breslau there are cellars from which, day and night, the screams of victims can be heard.”[12]
It is worth pausing here for a moment to highlight one of the more puzzling discrepancies at the trial. With regard to the most serious claims, we see a very clear pattern in terms of the responses of Nazis asked to provide evidence. The senior officials and officers - the defendants, all denied knowledge of the Holocaust. However, several more junior Nazis provided very detailed testimony regarding the Holocaust either on the stand or in the form of affidavits. Thus we see that the narrative which Historians developed and used to construct the Holocaust obelisk did not begin with the words and confessions of Göring, Streicher, von Ribbentrop or Kaltenbrunner, but unknowns and underlings like Wisliceny, von dem Bach-Zelewski, Ohlendorf and Höss. So why should second and third tier Nazi operatives sing their hearts out for their Allied captors, while their superiors maintained a veil of silence? Richard Overy, in a nonsensical piece of reasoning, conjectured that ‘it might well be thought that they were keen to make a full confession so that their bosses would not get away with persistent denial.’[25] Why on earth any German in Allied hands would deem it sensible to admit to these things, knowing the effect it would have on their own immediate future, Overy does not care to explain. Is he suggesting we believe that the junior Nazis in interrogation succumbed to an attack of conscience and told the truth, while their superiors did not? Or is it that these young officers vindictively wanted their former leaders hanged, for some reason? Either way, such reasoning can only ever be conjecture. We could just as easily suppose that the defendants knew that to admit to such things would mean imminent death whereas those not actually yet on trial might hope that saying what their interrogators wanted to hear would secure them some form of future leniency.
Without a doubt the most important piece of evidence regarding the Holocaust are the testimonies of the members of the so-called Sonderkommandos. They were the workers in the crematories who allegedly took the bodies from the gas chambers to be cremated. Normally, such witnesses should not exist, as the orthodox narrative has it that they were killed every few months to be replaced by others. And yet they do, even claiming that they were Sonderkommando members for many months, even years.
This augurs ill indeed for the historical process as it has been known, at least in the West, since the dawn of the era of human rights. As early as, say, 1789 (the American Bill of Rights), freedom of conscience, and expression, have been enshrined in law, not only out of concern for the validity of the process of developing history, but even more importantly, for the purpose of containing tyranny. This bulwark against thought control remains intact, at least nominally, in the United States, but it has been breached, with respect to Holocaust history, in all the countries mentioned, plus many more.
In her entry for August 28, 1942, Czech writes that some 200 deportees fit for work were taken off the deportation train at Cosel in Upper Silesia (halfway between Gleiwitz and Oppeln, some 50 km northwest of Auschwitz) in order to be deployed as slave laborers in Upper Silesian industry. There is evidently no direct documentary support for this claim, but considering that Auschwitz had been put under a camp lockdown, and that sending even deportees fit for labor there seems rather unwise, it stands to reason that the German authorities tried to send as many deportees as possible to other places not threatened by typhus. We know of the Cosel case only indirectly because some of the deportees taken off there were later admitted to the Auschwitz Camp after all. Czech handles this situation by arbitrarily subtracting invented numbers of deportees from several trains coming from France, Belgium and the Netherlands:
At the same time, Allied reconnaissance airplanes took several air photos of the camp. Hence, if the witnesses’ claims were true, we would expect to see thick smoke emanating from at least some of the crematory chimneys on at least some of these photos. In his trail-blazing work on air photo evidence about the Holocaust – or rather the lack thereof – John C. Ball has reproduced several of these reconnaissance photos which had been released to the public by that time. He posited that none of them show any smoke-emitting crematory chimneys.[3]
The book under investigation, Helmut Diwald: His Legacy for Germany, had been scoured by state prosecutors for passages that might constitute a violation of “Holocaust denial” laws. The offending footnote condemned by the court referred to claims of systematic extermination of Jews by means of cyanide gas at Auschwitz as a “fable” [fabula].
While no figures were found by this author, it also stands to reason that a certain percentage of the district’s Jews must have perished from “natural” causes in the period 1939 to 1942. All sources agree that from October 1942 onward the vast majority of all deportations from the Krakow district had as their destination either Auschwitz or Płaszów, a forced labor camp located in a southern suburb of Krakow. Some 11,000 Jews from the district were deported to Płaszów in connection with the evacuation of the Krakow ghetto in March 1943.[103] The estimate of 16,000 Jews from the Krakow district sent to Auschwitz is – like the others for the groups of Jews “sent in the wrong direction” presented by our opponents – provided without any evidence, which makes it basically worthless. Franciszek Piper lists the following seven transports as arriving at Auschwitz from destinations in the Krakow district:[104]
The documents permit us to provide an answer to this question. On 30 July 1944, a transport of 1,298 Jews reached Birkenau from Radom, who were registered under numbers A-18647-A-19944.[61] These however, in the Arbeitseinsatz report of 1 August, do not appear, neither under the heading “Zugang” (arrivals), which is not even listed, nor under the heading “Zugangsquarantäne” (new arrivals quarantined), which shows only 968 registered inmates in Camp BIIa, who constitute part of the 1,318 inmates listed in the report for 30 July. These 1,298 inmates do not appear either in the report for 2 August, which lists 965 registered inmates in Zugangsquarantäne for Camp BIIa, the same as the day before, and 2 inmates – 2 newborns / “Zugang (Neugebor.)” – as new arrivals.
The ongoing realization of the devastation that Poland suffered because of Stalinist communism and the significant role that Jews played in the Communist nightmare could help trigger a dramatic reappraisal of the Holocaust mythology in Poland. Indeed, it may have already begun. In January 2010, retired Polish Bishop Tadeusz Pieronek pointed out how Jewish groups exploit the Holocaust ideology for political gain.[84]
Many putative former Auschwitz inmates have also failed to accurately describe Mengele. Some have described Mengele as “very Aryan looking” or “tall and blond,” although Mengele was actually of medium height, with dark hair and a dark complexion.[17]
At Nuremberg the victors tried the vanquished; they were thus both judge and party to the case; they had decided beforehand that, if necessary, one would do without real evidence: “The Tribunal shall not be bound by technical rules of evidence [...]. The Tribunal shall not require proof of facts of common knowledge but shall take judicial notice thereof [...]” (Articles 19 and 21 of the Charter of the International Military Tribunal). Moreover, the victors’ justice violated the usages of normal justice in ignoring the separation of powers (some of those who took part in the drafting of the Charter went on to become judges and prosecutors), instituting collective responsibility (any member of a group declared “criminal” was automatically considered a criminal himself), implementing retroactivity of laws and denying those convicted any possibility of appeal. No representatives of the neutral nations were among the judges and prosecutors. In all seriousness the Soviets, with the concurrence of the American, British and French judges, had the audacity to rebuke the Germans for having carried out deportations and used concentration camps or forced-labor camps! Resorting to an additional specification of  Article 19 of the Charter, the Soviet prosecutor got the judges to refuse any serious investigation of the crime in Katyn Forest imputed to the Germans. As for the principal Soviet judge, Major General I.T. Nikitchenko, he had served as prosecutor in 1936 at the previous judicial masquerades called “the Moscow trials,” something that had not kept him from being recruited for Nuremberg.
Photo 18: Birkenau main entrance.
After the liberation of the Sachsenhausen Camp Soviet operatives “fed” the former inmates with disinformation and atrocity propaganda about a huge slaughter of Soviet POWs. Rumors which had arisen during the war were now “confirmed” by “knowledgeable” former prisoners. German prisoners of war and prisoners of the NKVD were forced to make statements that they would never have made voluntarily. To what extent Soviet propaganda distorted the facts is demonstrated by the immensely exaggerated figures of victims bandied about by Moscow’s propagandists.
David Cesarani (1956-2015) was an English historian specializing in Jewish history. He held posts at various universities including the University of Leeds, the University of Southampton and the University of London. This article will deal with his swan song—the book Final Solution: The Fate of the Jews 1933-1949 (Macmillan, 2016).
Extermination camps. That’s what I imagined concentration camps to be.
In fact, this view becomes quite convincing when we look at the actual crematoria (II and III at Birkenau: There is now a direct entrance into one of the morgues which would take on the function of an inspection hall; after having been inspected, the corpses would be taken to the second mortuary and then to the ovens. The ventilation system added during the design phase corresponded to these functions: the inspection hall had only an air-exhaust, the intake being constituted by the wide door to the outside, whereas the interior location of the mortuary made both a fresh-air and an exhaust system mandatory. The final arrangement was an inversion of the two morgues with respect to earlier schemes as far as a B-cellar and an L-cellar are concerned – and in the process, the morgues are relabeled - but we must remember that, initially, the location had not yet been fixed and the plan of the crematorium would, in any case, have had to be adapted to the site chosen.
SS officers at Auschwitz. From left to right: Richard Baer, Josef Mengele, Josef Kramer, Rudolf Höss (From the so-called Höcker Album, USHMM Archive)
Of the large transports of Jews, some 90,000 from Slovakia, 65,000 from Greece, – 110,000 from France – 20,000 from Belgium, 90,000 from Holland 400,000 from Hungary – 250,000 from Poland a. Upper Silesia [Upper Sil.], 100,000 from Deutschland a. Theresienstadt were brought to Auschwitz.
During recent years there have appeared from time to time new books on the Treblinka “death camp”. Compared with the vast number of Auschwitz-related publications, and considering the fact that according to the exterminationist point of view Treblinka claimed the second-highest number of victims among the six “death camps” (the victim figure given usually varies between 750,000 and 900,000) this is only a small trickle. One might expect then that the contents of these few books would at least be partially fresh, offering us new insights and new material. Unfortunately this is not the case: from the publication of Yitzhak Arad’s Belzec, Sobibor, Treblinka in 1987 the exterminationist literature on the Treblinka camp has very much been treading old ground. In the following review I will briefly discuss three books relating to the camp which were published between 2003 and 2012. It will be not so much a comprehensive review as a presentation of what these books have to offer which is not a rehash of Arad, Sereny et al – pitifully little, as we will see.
The writer’s scepticism about the German verdict is evident: ‘There was no evidence he [Demjanjuk] had committed a specific crime, but the state argued just being there was evidence of guilt – the first time such a legal argument has been used in a German court.’ In Australia we call that ‘moving the goalposts’.
Like most historians, Peter Longerich believes the Aktion Reinhardt camps of Treblinka, Sobibor and Belzec were pure extermination camps. He states in his book Holocaust that 1,274,166 Jews had been killed in the Aktion Reinhardt camps by the end of 1942. Longerich bases his statement on the Höfle telegram from January 1943, which shows that this many Jews had been sent by then to the Aktion Reinhardt camps. Longerich assumes that all Jews sent to the Aktion Reinhardt camps were murdered.[28]
This is contradicted by Sobibor inmate Moshe Bahir. He claimed that after the conclusion of a mass gassing, when all of the victims were dead, the “gas chamber operator” Bauer would open the “trap doors” in the floor of the gas chamber (the “bathhouse”) and the bodies would fall into wagons positioned below. In his own words: “At his [Bauer’s] order the machinery which opened the floor of the ‘bathhouse’ was activated, and the corpses fell into small carts which took them at first to mass graves and, later when time was short, to cremation ovens instead.”[49] This is sustained by Sobibor survivor Chaim Engel, who also claimed that the bodies fell through trap doors.[50 ]
Some Jews were sent from the Aktion Reinhardt camps to Auschwitz and Majdanek. Polish historian Zofia Leszczynska reports that 1,700 Jews left Belzec for Majdanek in October of 1942. Jewish historians Adam Rutkowski and Tatiana Berenstein state in an article about Jews at Majdanek: “Some of the transports from Warsaw reached Lublin by way of Treblinka, where the selection of the deportees took place.” Samuel Zylbersztain wrote that on April 30, 1942, a transport with 305 Jews arrived at Majdanek from Treblinka. Such reports give the lie to the claim that Belzec and Treblinka were pure extermination camps.[10]
At the end of August 1944, Churchill’s son showed his father a copy of the full report of four escapees from the Auschwitz “extermination camp,” an official document that had been published a month and a half earlier by the War Refugee Board in Washington. Before this, Churchill had only seen a summary version. Gilbert comments: “Not for the first time, Randolph had alerted his father to an aspect of the Jewish fate that had not reached the Prime Minister through official channels.”[56]
Clearly then, the whole Holocaust ideology represents a direct challenge to the credibility and existence of Christianity and a belief in God, as a significant number of theologians and churchmen have given serious consideration to this “God-died-with-Auschwitz” theology. In order that Christians may successfully deal with the crisis of faith that the Holocaust ideology has created, it is necessary to first answer the most obvious question: Did the Holocaust actually occur? In order to answer this in a truthful way, one must evaluate both the traditional and revisionist views of the Holocaust in a fair and objective manner.
The motivation alleged to have impelled him to conduct this undertaking – the desire to find the final resting place of his grandfather, a POW, in a concentration camp at Rawa Ruska, in the Ukraine – is a rather facile pretext. Desbois in fact tells us that, finding himself in Częstochowa, in central-southern Poland, during a nighttime walk, he asked his companions where they were: "Someone turned to me and answered: ‘Not far from the Ukraine.’" This response is said to have shocked him, by suddenly re-awakening old memories (pp. 35-36). In reality, Częstochowa is nearly 350 kilometers away from the Ukraine as the crow flies. It is closer to Germany (less than 290 km away) than the Ukraine. Desbois's account is therefore merely a literary fiction.
Browning’s colleague, Oxford history professor Richard Evans, attacked Irving by charging him with document manipulation. Evans alleged that Irving was simply rationalizing away evidence that does not fit his theories; he twisted and distorted the evidence in order to make it conform to his viewpoint.[23] In light of what Browning has revealed about the Eichmann memoirs, this is a groundless smear.
Memorial Plaque at Sachsenhausen for the homosexual victims of National Socialism
“The final destination for those who could not work, the gas chamber – here, the gas chamber at Flossenburg.”
One wonders, if at any point in the future this may be referred to as an Iraqi Holocaust? What, we might ask, have the ordinary people of Iraq done to deserve this slaughter? To which side of the conflict can we truthfully apply Mr Bush’s terminology of the ‘ideology of murderers’? [12]
Capt. Julien took immediate steps to improve conditions in the camps. The official army ration had been only 800 calories per person per day. This starvation level, which was the same as the German concentration camp at Bergen-Belsen when it was liberated, was all that the French army allocated to POWs from its own supplies. Capt. Julien rounded up the women from the village, who immediately brought food to the camp. Julien received additional help in his efforts to improve conditions in the camps from “German authorities” and the ICRC. By August 1, 1945, over 90% of the prisoners were housed in tents, food rations were greatly increased, and the death rate had been cut by more than half. Capt. Julien’s system of improving the camps worked. The U.S. Army could have adopted Julien’s humanitarian methods, but chose instead to let the German POWs die of exposure and slow starvation.[34]
But Solzhenitsyn’s fate, life and work are characterized above all by will. To survive four years at the front, live through the Soviet concentration camps, overcome serious illness, struggle to become a writer, gain a world reputation against inhuman odds, and finally unswervingly to follow his path—all this is a miracle of rare willpower.[35]
Either one gives up the priority of the archives, and in this case one disqualifies history as a science, in order to immediately reclassify it as fiction; or one retains the priority of the archive, and in this case one must concede that the lack of traces brings with it the incapability of directly proving the existence of homicidal gas chambers.” – unquote
Leuchter also observed that the delousing chambers were airtight, well-made and designed for safety in their use with Zyklon B. By comparison the alleged homicidal gas chambers were not airtight, were poorly constructed, and would have been dangerous for the operators. Why would gas chambers designed to kill lice be properly constructed and engineered, while gas chambers designed and used to kill millions of people be improperly constructed and engineered and dangerous for the operators? Leuchter concludes: “After a thorough examination of the alleged execution facilities in Poland and their associated crematories, the only conclusion that can be arrived at by a rational, responsible person is the absurdity of the notion that any of these facilities were ever capable of, or were utilized as, execution gas chambers.”[7]
The matter was not over however. At the conclusion of the war the victorious Allies put the Nazi Leadership on trial in Nuremberg. While ostensibly a trial by an “International Military Tribunal,” the victors did not have to answer for atrocities that would certainly have resulted in death sentences had they been committed by the vanquished Nazi leadership. After the initial indictment was signed by the Nuremberg prosecutors, including a charge that the Nazis murdered 945 Polish officers in Katyn, near Smolensk, the Soviets demanded that the indictment be rewritten. The passage should in fact charge the Nazis with the murder of 11,000 Polish officers at Katyn. The Soviets charged that the Nazis had perpetrated the crime and had increased the number originally suggested by 1000 per cent.
On 5th December 2009 the prestigious UK newspaper, The Manchester Guardian, apologised for publishing a letter by John Mortl on 3rd December, saying, inter alia, ‘The underlying meaning, we now realise, implied Holocaust denial.’
[24] Rassinier, Paul, The Holocaust Story and the Lies of Ulysses, Costa Mesa, Cal.: The Institute for Historical Review, 1978.
The hate against Holocaust revisionists is spread not only through official governmental legislation and violent campaigns of terror, but is imbedded in the language of recondite college professors. In her Denying the Holocaust, Deborah Lipstadt used a language of hate when describing Holocaust revisionists, “Today the bacillus carried by these rats threatens to ‘kill’ those who already died at the hands of the Nazis for a second time by destroying the world’s memory of them.”[9]
France had previously enacted a law against racial discrimination in 1972, and on the basis of this law Faurisson was accused of “falsification of history in the matter of the gas chambers.” The Paris Court of Appeals rendered a decision in April 1973, declaring him innocent of falsification of history, but found him guilty of “reducing his research to malevolent slogans,” and “personal injury.” As such, Faurisson was ordered to pay a small fine.
There are a few points of interest in Diels’s statements. The prosecution set great stock in his statement that there was general knowledge of gassing in Germany during the war. Diels, who made similar statements concerning the general knowledge of gassing a year later as well,[172] focused on stories of euthanasia gassings. He claimed that it was general knowledge that Zyklon-B was used to gas insane people, mentioning a euthanasia center for killing with Zyklon-B located in Württemberg. Interestingly, there is a 1941 document mentioning the rumor of euthanasia gassings with hydrogen cyanide,[173] and rumors concerning gassings in Württemberg circulated in the press.[174]
We had heard already that the other people were murdered in those other, nearer by, concentration camps like Bergen-Belsen and Sachsenhausen. There was a lot we had heard about.
Where previously the defense could force the introduction of evidence when this evidence had already been “produced,” that is, was present in the courtroom, since then the defense must first file a motion to introduce anything they wish to introduce, as stated in the new Clause 2 of this paragraph. The court can, however, deny these motions on a plethora of grounds. This list has likewise been greatly expanded vis-à-vis the version of 1975, which contained only the first two items (italicized):
But even if it could be proven that all Holocaust-deniers are motivated by a desire to resurrect “Nazism,” that would not justify their suppression. In a democracy, the exponents of every political viewpoint are supposed to be entitled to their rights and their freedoms. To deny these to people merely on the grounds that they are Nazis would be to practice the very methods of totalitarianism of which the original Nazis stood accused and which is cited as a major reason for rejecting their doctrines.
Riefenstahl was also criticized for still supporting Hitler after witnessing the massacre of approximately 30 Jewish civilians in Konskie, Poland. This incident occurred after Polish partisans in Konskie had killed and mutilated a German officer and four soldiers. While such anti-partisan incidents were common during the war, they did not indicate a German plan of genocide against the Poles or the Jews. Riefenstahl was not complicit in this anti-partisan action, and she promptly terminated her film reporting of the war after this incident.[24]
The highest number of arrests for this early period is estimated to have been around 100,000 people, mainly Communists and other assorted Marxists out of a population of some 60 million Germans. However, this figure is confounded by the fact that a person taken into custody may only have been jailed for a single day, or even just a few hours. At other times, former detainees were released and then arrested again, thus the figure of 100,000 doesn’t represent 100,000 unique individuals.[28] The number of those actually detained in a concentration camp was even lower, anywhere from 30,000 to 50,000 in this period.[29] By the end of 1934, there were no more than 3,000 inmates in the five camps that were operational. This figure rose slightly in 1936 to 4,761.[30] At this point in time, Hitler himself even considered closing all the camps for good, but Himmler talked him out of it.[31] On December 31, 1938, the number of concentration camp inmates had risen to 12,921. One third of this number was comprised of political prisoners, leaving their share at around 4,300 in a population that had risen to 80 million after the Anschluss of Austria and the return of the German Sudetenland. Thus, at the end of 1938, the percentage of political prisoners in the Third Reich was a measly 0.0000538%.[32]
We note here the expression “further and further eastwards”. The destination of the transports “further eastwards” is made more clear in the following paragraph which concerns the deportation of Jews from the Warsaw Ghetto – which the mainstream historians claim led said Jews to their deaths in the gas chambers of Treblinka:
[23] Mattogno, Carlo. Auschwitz: The End of a Legend, Newport Beach, Cal.: The Institute for Historical Review, 1994, p. 32.
The movie is haunted by the specter of Zündel, whose two trials (1985 and 1988) are landmarks in revisionism. The film’s opening scene has Prof. Lipstadt in a classroom writing on a chalkboard the four main points of “Holocaust denial.” The last two are borrowed from Prof. Robert Faurisson, the Zündel defense team’s research head, as he stated them in an explosive essay in 1978 in France’s leading newspaper, Le Monde. Lipstadt’s point four is straight from Faurisson and rings true: The gas-chamber myth was concocted to “extort money from the Germans and gain sympathy for the state of Israel.” Bingo!
Venezia, born in Salonica (Greece) in 1923, was apprehended in Athens on 25 March 1944 and later deported to Birkenau, which he reached in April. It is curious that, in his book Libro della memoria [Book of Memory], Liliana Picciotto Fargion lists, among the deported Italian Jews, three persons born at Salonica with the last name Venezia, but not Shlomo[17], perhaps because he was an Italian citizen[18].
From 26 October 1942 onward the Theresienstadt transports were sent to Auschwitz.[29]
On the same day, Der Tagespiegel published a front-page article titled “The Commandant of Auschwitz arrested” (“Der Kommandant von Auschwitz verhaftet”), also referring to a news item of March 18. The “gassing” story was reported with the same words.
From the end of February until December 1943, the mortality of the inmates registered in the Hauptbuch was 7,359 inmates, to whom must be added at least half of the 1,329 deaths for whom the dates are illegible,[41] a total of at least 8,000, thus the average mortality was approximately 27 deaths per day. The mortality of [528 + 507 =] 1,035 inmates in 14 days (recordings) represents an average of approximately 74 deaths per day, a rate perfectly compatible with an epidemic of petechial fever. In the men’s camp at Birkenau, in the midst of the petechial fever epidemic, 2,824 inmates died in ten days, from 10 to 19 August 1942, an average of 282 per day, out of an average labor force of approximately 23,000 inmates [= 1.23% per day].[42] Since, as we have already seen above, the average labor force of the Zigeunerlager was 13,000 inmates, a mortality of [13,000 x 1.23/100 =] approximately 160 inmates per day, in the midst of the epidemic is consistent with the tragic reality of Birkenau.
As for the partial extermination of the Minsk ghetto inmates at the end of July 1942 the only documentary evidence introduced was the Nuremburg document 3428-PS, a letter from Generalkommissar Wilhelm Kube to Reichskommissar Hinrich Lohse dated 31 July 1942 in which it is stated that 6,500 Jews from the “Russian Ghetto” and 3,500 Jews from the so-called “Hamburg Ghetto” had been liquidated on 28-29 July.[35] The court ruled, however, that the figure mentioned by Kube “possibly may not be completely reliable” and instead pronounced a minimum of 9,000 victims. Again deviating from the documentary evidence introduced, the verdict stated that the extermination had lasted from 28 to 30 July, and further ruled that on each of these three days, “a minimum of 2,000 and a maximum of 3,500 people were delivered to their death”.[36]
No attempt is made to justify this bald assertion. What evidence was found of a carte blanche’s having been given? What was the legal framework requiring them to assassinate the Jews? Was all this mere hearsay?
From a military standpoint, the war in the East was now turning against Germany. From mid-December 1942, when they repelled the attack on Stalingrad, to mid-February 1943, the Russians began to recapture an extensive amount of territory. Evacuations of Jews to the East must have appeared less and less feasible, and perhaps this is why Belzec and Treblinka were virtually shut down by the end of February; in fact, the March 2 entry (below) is the last time Goebbels explicitly refers to “the East.” Sobibor held out until late summer 1943, when the second wave of Russian advancement began. Rather than dumping them in ghettos, it gradually became more urgent for the Germans to put the Jews to work in labor camps—hence the shifting emphasis to Auschwitz.
Be that as it may, it is worth mentioning that the normal (living) human body releases energy at an average rate of something like 100 watts, or roughly 100 kilocalories per hour. Even if only 4 persons are crowded into a floor area of one square meter, this unit of space will receive almost half a kilowatt of energy (for van Pelt even eight persons can be crammed into one square meter, because the Germans based their streetcar designs on that load). In Crematorium IV or V, for example, where - to use reasonable figures - perhaps 350 people might have been herded into a space of about 90 square meters, such a space would have been warmed up by a total amount of human energy amounting to some 35 kilowatts - much, much more than would be used for heating in a normal building (something like 6 or 8 kW would be the usual practice in this case), and the atmosphere in that room would within minutes have reached a temperature amply sufficient for proper vaporization of Zyklon B pellets. This is another instance where van Pelt, trying to prove one story, invalidates another argument.
“They put us on a train on November 1, 1944. We had no idea how we were picked to go on this train. Someone told us it was not to go anywhere – at the end of the tracks was the crematorium, a few yards or so away. But someone else told us, ’No, you are supposed to go to Germany as laborers.’ Of course you couldn’t trust this, but it turned out to be true.” (p. 89)
3. Holocaust denial in the age of web 2.0: negationist discourse since the Irving-Lipstadt trial
[p. 3] After the first 2 large-scale crematoria had been finished in 1942 (the 2 others were finished half a year later), mass transports from France, Belgium, Holland and Greece commenced. The following procedure was used for this. The transport trains left [sic] at a ramp with 3 tracks which were built right between the crematoria, property warehouse and the Birkenau camp. The selection of those fit for work as well as putting down the luggage happened right on the ramp. Those fit for work were brought to the various camps, and those to be exterminated to one of the new crematoria. There they first walked into a large underground room for undressing. This room was equipped with benches and provisions to hand up clothes; here, too, the people were told by interpreters that they were led to take a bath and to be deloused and that they should pay attention to the location of their clothes. Then they walked into the next room that was also underground [and] that was equipped with water pipes and showers, which thus had to create the impression of a bathroom. Until the very end, 2 sergeants had to remain in the room in order to prevent any unrest.
Faurisson noted that the tortures inflicted on Höss had been confirmed by Moritz von Schirmeister, a former associate of Joseph Goebbels at the Reich’s Ministry of Propaganda. On May 7, 1948, he wrote a letter to Höss’s wife on request of the former commander of Auschwitz:[13]
Signed by 34 historians, amongst whom Fernand Braudel, that declaration, decidedly hostile to me, is important. Taking note of the fact that my research had essentially led me to find that the case for the existence of the gas chambers ran into certain technical and physical impossibilities, those 34 professors concluded their declaration thus: “One must not ask oneself how, technically, such a mass-murder was possible. It was technically possible, since it happened. That is the requisite starting point for any historical inquiry into the subject. It is incumbent upon us to state this truth simply: there is not, there cannot be any debate on the existence of the gas chambers.” However, the debate would indeed take place, albeit sometimes in the very worst conditions for the revisionists – particularly in the law courts, both in France and elsewhere.
The “Holocaust” will go down in history as one of the most fabulous impostures of all time. The State of Israel has so far owed its survival only to this imposture which, in its eyes, justifies the theft of a territory, a cruel apartheid and perpetual war: this state is headed towards its doom as well. The Jewish organizations in the diaspora have failed. Their arrogance, their pressure, their blackmailing methods, their constant calls for repression against those who open, one after another, the black boxes of the “Holocaust” have not prevented a development throughout the world of widespread skepticism and fatigue with regard to stories illustrating the purportedly exceptional character of an incomparable Jewish suffering. The Jews on the whole have had bad shepherds, who are leading them to the abyss. They would be well advised to listen to those among them, few for the moment, who, whether in a low voice or out loud, denounce the Great Imposture of the Holocaust, the Great Imposture of the State of Israel and the Great False Witnesses in the style of Elie Wiesel.
While many considered the matter closed, various Jewish organizations continued to hound Demjanjuk. The thought was apparently that even if Demjanjuk was not the fiend of Treblinka, he must have been guilty of some other Holocaust related crime. In 1999 the US Justice Department filed a new civil complaint against Demjanjuk.
Novick was certainly eminently qualified to give this topic a thorough, insightful treatment. He was Jewish, but people who knew him described him as “non-observant,” a description possibly fitting a majority of American “Jews.” It does not appear that he “lost” any European relatives to (in, or during) the Holocaust. He was by 1999 a respected historian, author, among other things of a 1988 book titled That Noble Dream: The “Objectivity Question” and the American Historical Profession, a book whose index lacks the keywords Holocaust, Revisionism, or Israel.
This [case] is not about what was written – that’s not for this court to determine – but rather about what was not written. If you had devoted just a fraction of the same exactitude to highlighting the other side [of the Holocaust issue] you would not have been sentenced. However, your total one-sidedness is precisely the opposite of the scholarly method. You continually suggest to your readers that if this and that point [of official Holocaust history] is not correct, the rest can’t quite be true either. In this way, the Holocaust is reduced to the level of an industrial accident.[51]
"There is a building in Amsterdam where all Jews were rounded up by the Nazis for deportation to the concentration camps, where many of them would be gassed immediately upon arrival. A plaque on the building says we should take a moment and remember them. In that moment, I think the departed souls feel our blessing; hopefully, in some way, it helps bring them peace."
After a flurry of heated international protests, Lüftl was pressed to resign from his position as president of Austria’s association of professional engineers, following which he was arrested and charged with violating Austria’s “Holocaust denial” laws, which make it a crime to “deny, grossly play-down, approve of, or seek to deny…National Socialist genocide or any other National Socialist crimes against humanity.”[12]
The Jewish law, the Halakha, specifies that bodies must not be moved under any circumstances, particularly the victims of the Holocaust (p. 176).
Meanwhile, Erwin Adler, a 62-year-old lecturer in politics and social science at the University of Munich, where he had been employed for twenty-five years, was summarily suspended for questioning the existence of homicidal gas chambers. University rector Professor Andrew Heldrich disagreed with Adler’s opinion, which he characterized as “frightful and unacceptable,” and confirmed that the outspoken professor would be summarily dismissed due to his “lack of sensitivity.”
The case against Zentai appears to rest almost, if not entirely, upon documentary evidence, most of it coming from the communist-run People’s Court in 1948. ‘Evidence hidden in long-forgotten archives in Budapest indicts Zentai as the sole surviving suspect in this killing [of Peter Balazs].’[53] Vamos points out that the information Dezso Balazs had acquired ‘was detailed, right down to the presence of six Jewish forced labourers at the barracks.’[54] Vamos also addresses the claim by Zentai that he had already left Budapest the day before on 7 November 1944: "This is unlikely, as a soldier usually leaves his unit only if he is transferred or goes absent without leave. Zentai has not claimed that either situation applied….. Unit member Sandor Lippkai stated that they left some time between 10 and 15 November. According to yet another, Laszlo Moricz, the unit moved to Hanta on 11 November."[55]
Not one for dogma of any sort, Rollins addresses the need to “revise” Holocaust revisionism, calling himself “a skeptic regarding both the Holocaust and Holocaust revisionism.” As we might expect, he finds tons of egregious faults in James J. Martin’s revisionist appeal to libertarians, “On the Latest Crisis Provoked by Revisionism,” published in New Libertarian. Then, after flashing his revisionist credentials (Rollins published several articles and reviews in the Journal of Historical Review in the early eighties) he declares that Holocaust revisionists in general, and the IHR in particular, have been “spreading falsehood.” Rollins finds this a little ironic, charging that revisionists should be “setting the story straight,” not simply setting up another crooked tale.
Holocaust “denial” was later substantively incorporated into these laws and interpreted as a continuation of “Nazi propaganda.”
Other American intelligence officers reported that most Bolshevik leaders were Jews. MID’s New York office reported “that there is now definite evidence that Bolshevism is an international movement controlled by Jews.” In Bern, an American agent reported that 90% of those attending secret Bolshevik meetings were Jews. The British government also obtained evidence that the Bolshevik movement throughout the world is an international conspiracy of Jews. The official MID viewpoint was that “Jewish intellectuals have had the leading and commanding part everywhere,” and because of “the growing power of the Jews,” they practically controlled the Soviet government.[5]
One consequence of the history of the Second World War being reduced to little more than a carnival House of Horrors is that even true believers get duped. An Israeli group called “March of the Living,” which takes young Jews on tours of Auschwitz - traumatizing them for life with the grimmest of fairy tales - includes in their promotional material this photo of a pile of smoldering corpses:23
April. German born Swedish-Jewish business man Norbert Masur is sent to Berlin as a representative for Hillel Storch, delegate of the Jewish World Congress. Early in the morning of April 21, Masur met with Himmler at Hartzwalde, the countryside manor owned by Himmler's personal doctor and masseur Dr. Felix Kersten. Their two hour conversation was recounted in the book En Jude talar med Himmler (A Jew speaks with Himmler), which was published later that year – after the end of the war – by Stockholm publishing company Albert Bonniers. According to Masur, Himmler stated the following in regards to the concentration camps:
As for Romania, orthodox Holocaust historian Dennis Deletant writes that by “the summer of 1942, [the Romanian leader Mihai] Antonescu made a fundamental change to his policy toward the Jews,” a change involving a “refusal to participate in the ‘Final Solution’” which meant the cancellation of a German plan to deport Jews from Romania proper into Poland and the suspension of deportations (in October 1942) of Jews from Romanian-annexed Bukovina and Bessarabia across the Dniestr into Transnistria.[93] The transport of Jewish convoys through Romanian and Hungarian territory would no doubt have caused unwelcome political/bureaucratic friction, something which not only explains the above-mentioned roundabout routes of the trains from Salonika and Thrace to Treblinka and Auschwitz, but also why, within the framework of the transit-camp hypothesis, these transports were not routed directly northeast into the Occupied Eastern Territories. Transports from eastern Greece to Ukraine or further north to Reich Commissariate Ostland would necessarily have crossed Romanian territory.[94] It therefore appears that, based on political considerations, the transports were routed through German-occupied Serbia and the German puppet state of Croatia to Austria and on to Poland, circumventing Hungary. From Auschwitz and Treblinka those Greek Jews not selected for local labor purposes could then continue to the East.
Count Nikolai Tolstoy in 1988 asserted that ‘the validation of evidence emanating from the Soviet Union requires not merely authentication of specific documents or assessment of the reliability of individual witnesses, but also a deep understanding of Soviet history and government such as is possessed by few jurists.’[65]
While the secret Polish documents alone indicate that Roosevelt was preparing the American public for war against Germany, a large amount of complementary evidence confirms the conspiracy reported by the Polish ambassadors. The diary of James V. Forrestal, the first U.S. secretary of defense, also reveals that Roosevelt and his administration helped start World War II. Forrestal’s entry on December 27, 1945 stated:
Photo 3: Gas chamber floor.
the situation of the German prisoners of war in France has become desperate and shortly will become an open scandal. During the past week several Frenchmen, who were formerly prisoners of the Germans, have called on me to protest the treatment being given German prisoners of war by the French Government. Gen. Thrasher Commanding the Oise Intermediary sector, asked one of our field workers to come to Paris to see me about the same matter. Mrs. Dunning, returning from Bourges, reports that dozens of German prisoners are dying there weekly. I saw Pradervand who told me that the situation of German prisoners in France in many instances is worse than in the former German concentration camps. He showed me photographs of human skeletons and letters from French camp commanders who have asked to be relieved because they can get no help from the French government and cannot stand to see the prisoners dying from lack of food. Pradervand has appealed to everyone in the French government but to no avail.[28]
To resolve all doubts, the reproductions published by the Mémorial de la Shoah have Russian language explanations and attestation clauses. Translated into English, the attestation clause under Fig. 2 reads:
In his interview published in Gente, the question "How many hours a day did the ovens operate?" is formulated as follows: "Were the ovens always alight?" The answer is the same: "Twenty four hours a day"[213]. This is another thermo-technical absurdity, because the ovens at Birkenau, being fuelled with coke, had to be shut down daily to clean the grids of the gas producers. This was explicitly prescribed by the service manuals of 2- and 3-muffle ovens from Topf, the manufacturer:
Indeed, in April 1999, the German Federal Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer stated: “All democracies have a basis, a cornerstone. For France it is 1789, for Germany it is Auschwitz.”[106] In the highly respected German daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Patrick Bahners put forth a founding belief of the present German government. If one “denies the murder of the Jews, he repudiates the legitimacy of the Federal Republic.”[107]
What a magnificent blow for truth, justice and humanity the French national assembly has struck…Vive la France! But let this be only a beginning in a brave new chapter of European history. Let the British parliament now make it a crime to deny that it was Russians who murdered Polish officers at Katyn in 1940. Let the Turkish parliament make it a crime to deny that France used torture against insurgents in Algeria… No one can legislate historical truth. In so far as historical truth can be established at all, it must be found by unfettered historical research, with historians arguing over the evidence and the facts, testing and disputing each other’s claims, without fear of prosecution or persecution.
An advisor to the Afghan minister of culture told the British daily the Independent that he supported the verdict [to execute a blasphemer of Islam], contending that Europe restricted Holocaust denial in much the same way: “Every country has its own limits on freedom. European people have the right to protect their opinions about ideas which are supposed to be dangerous for their civilization.”
William Henry Chamberlain also concluded that Roosevelt guided America into the war. Chamberlain wrote: “The war with Germany was also very largely the result of the initiative of the Roosevelt Administration. The destroyer deal, the lend-lease bill, the freezing of Axis assets, the injection of the American Navy, with much secrecy and doubletalk, into the Battle of the Atlantic: these and many similar actions were obvious departures from neutrality, even though a Neutrality Act, which the President had sworn to uphold, was still on the statute books.”[20]
It is further mentioned that the entrances to the chambers in the new building had “iron doors” (p. 64) with observation windows in them (p. 60). The older, smaller gas chamber building also contained a room where the “dentists” worked on sorting the extracted tooth metal (p. 85).
Elie tells us despite his hunger he doesn’t eat it because he was still “the spoiled child,” so his father takes his ration instead. Then they take a siesta. Elie now begins to think the SS officer of the other day was lying: Auschwitz is not a concentration camp, not a death camp where if you do not work you die, but in fact a rest home!
"Many executions by gas or shootings or injections took place right in the camp. The gas chamber was completed in 1944, and I was called by Dr. Rascher to examine the first victims. Of the eight or nine persons in the chamber there were three still alive… Many prisoners were later killed in this way."
The bitter critic of “Holocaust denial”, Professor Deborah Lipstadt, conceded that the story that the Nazis made soap from Jewish corpses is another war time falsehood.[21] Another Holocaust era historian, Richard Breitmann, made a similar finding: the claim that the Nazis manufactured fertilizer and fats from corpses is erroneous.[22]
“The supply of gas into the chamber was controlled by means of two valves on one of the outer walls, and beneath the valves was a small glass-covered peephole through which the operator could watch the victims die. The gas was let into the chamber through pipes terminating in perforated brass fixtures set into the ceiling.”
After a few weeks as ”normal“ concentration camp inmates, they were for some unknown reason assigned to the punishment battalion and forced to march on the boot-testing track six days a week. Presumably, the German side tried to exchange them for German POWs, but the offer was rejected by the British government. This was probably the reason that, only a few weeks before the end of the war, six of the sailors were finally shot, while the seventh died of typhus.
Looking for some hard evidence, we move on to the sub-chapter “Toward a plan for swift, direct extermination” where we read:
Today similar propaganda stories circulate about the Islamic Republic of Iran. Much of it is centered on President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who is a target of hatred due to his statements which have been cast as “Holocaust denial.” Ahmadinejad is not alone however. Recently the case of Bishop Richard Williamson resulted in a firestorm of media coverage because the Pope had lifted the excommunication of a Bishop who did not believe the orthodox Holocaust story.
There are two fundamental versions of the Holocaust, one that was created for war propaganda, which is not primarily about Jews, and a very different version that was created for Zionist propaganda, which is all about Jews.
Areginal, unlike Zyklon B, was stored as a gas and accordingly was kept in bottles. Hence, the conversion of the Sachsenhausen delousing chambers to Areginal offers an explanation for the otherwise baffling Soviet technical report: it was inspired by the observation of a DEGESCH recirculation gas chamber that had been modified to use Areginal gas.
This official version of the so-called Holocaust is pure nonsense. Homicidal gas chambers using Zyklon B cannot be built “on the fly” by SS men with no engineering background. This is shown by a comparison to the delousing chambers used in the German concentration camps. The German delousing chambers were patented by the German firm Degesch, involved extremely advanced engineering, and were carefully constructed to be gastight and safe for the operators.[16]
[15] Arad, Yitzhak, The Holocaust in the Soviet Union, Lincoln, Neb.: University of Nebraska Press, 2009, pp. 355-356.
ii. The period of operation of the new crematorium
In his final report (which was already in possession of the ESC when they started with their own report), Lt. Colonel Sharitch stated that 19,900 prisoners had died at Sachsenhausen:
For the general public in the United States it was NBC's five-part miniseries Holocaust in April 1978 that established Holocaust as a proper noun. The show's intro featured the symbol of the Jewish religion, a six-pointed star, engulfed in flames. It is similar to an image that was used in Why We Fight to represent Judaism as one of several oppressed religions.
By a ‘control’ sample we mean one taken from a room that has not been recorded or alleged to have functioned as a gas chamber, neither for humans nor for clothes or bedding, i.e. it has been neither a DC nor an HGC. For ascertaining this group, we have here used the careful work of Desjardins, who in 2007 published a new analysis of his 1996 visit to Auschwitz-Birkenau, where he re-traced the sites sampled by Leuchter, commenting on the locations of each sample.[34] Thus three primary sources remain available for locating the sample sites: video footage taken during the Leuchter sampling, maps drawn up afterwards, and the reconstruction by Mr Desjardins.[35] Thereby we have been able to group the data for example by outdoor/exposed versus indoor/unexposed specimens, as mentioned, but also and more importantly by homicidal gas chambers (HGC) versus background or control levels. Major textbooks have pointed to the buildings which reportedly functioned as HGCs,[36] and clearly the main motivation of these chemical wall-sampling investigations has focused upon these.
In the context of the Holocaust, therefore, this testimony may be referred to as "unique" only for its inconsistency, its impalpability, its evanescence, its total and extraordinary lack of concreteness and precision.
Following the death of Bubis in 1999, the Council split into two factions, both clamoring for equal financial support from the German government. In an attempt to extend its influence the Council established a close network with other Jewish organizations around the world. All of these organizations were to act together to pursue a common agenda that specifically targeted Holocaust denial and perceived manifestations of anti-Semitism.
Played golf today with Joe Kennedy [Roosevelt’s Ambassador to Great Britain in the years immediately before the war]. I asked him about his conversations with Roosevelt and Neville Chamberlain from 1938 on. He said Chamberlain’s position in 1938 was that England had nothing with which to fight and that she could not risk going to war with Hitler. Kennedy’s view: That Hitler would have fought Russia without any later conflict with England if it had not been for Bullitt’s urging on Roosevelt in the summer of 1939 that the Germans must be faced down about Poland; neither the French nor the British would have made Poland a cause of war if it had not been for the constant needling from Washington. Bullitt, he said, kept telling Roosevelt that the Germans wouldn’t fight; Kennedy that they would, and that they would overrun Europe. Chamberlain, he says, stated that America and the world Jews had forced England into the war. In his telephone conversations with Roosevelt in the summer of 1939 the President kept telling him to put some iron up Chamberlain’s backside. Kennedy’s response always was that putting iron up his backside did no good unless the British had some iron with which to fight, and they did not….
So if you stop believing in homicidal gas chambers, you’re not only automatically a racist, anti-Semite, extremist and neo-fascist who hates democracy, you are also a clear and present danger to your country’s government, because you obviously plan to overthrow it and replace it with a renewed Hitlerite dictatorship.
After consultation with Robert Murphy, now Under Secretary of State, and with the permission of General Clay, I went to Nürnberg to see Jackson. I told Jackson not only should you never have been brought before that tribunal but that you had consistently been working for the downfall of the Nazi regime. I told him that I had been in touch with you consistently during the first part of the war and Under Secretary of State Wells through me, and that you had passed on to me information adverse to the Nazi cause…[89]
While we do not yet have the advantage of the book being published, wouldn’t the description by Yale Uni. Press suggest an example of ‘relativizing the Holocaust’?[40]
This type of revisionist research or activity is not without hazard. To embark upon, and, especially, to keep on with revisionist action takes guts. Elie Wiesel and his friends stand guard around the black boxes of the “Holocaust”: there is no question of letting us approach and see what they contain. Yet, personally, I had the luck one day of discovering and opening for an instant the black box of Auschwitz and Birkenau at the Auschwitz State Museum. This happened in two stages. In 1975, during my first examination of the scenes of the “crime,” I had detected some downright anomalies in what is shown to us as a crematorium in its original state (Krema I at Auschwitz proper, that is, Auschwitz I main camp) or crematoria in ruins (Kremas II and III as well as IV and V at Birkenau, or “Auschwitz II”). I then got a senior official of the  museum to acknowledge that Krema I had been “reconstructed,” whereas the public thought they were seeing a genuine crematorium kept in its original state. I had him note the absence of any soot at the mouth of a crematory oven, which he assured me was “original”; then he told me that the said oven  was actually a “reconstruction,” whereupon I made him admit that the “reconstruction” necessarily implied the knowledge and, therefore, the existence of building plans for the crematoria. I asked him where the plans were. Not without embarrassment he confessed that they were in the camp archives. Being obliged to return to France, I put off my visit to the  archives till the following year. I shall pass over the details of the difficulties encountered then and come straight to the conclusion: on March 19, 1976 I discovered in the archives of the State Museum the building plans of the Auschwitz and Birkenau crematoria, supposed to have contained the homicidal “gas chambers.” Those plans had been kept hidden from us since 1945 (see my piece “A  Look back at  My Discovery, on March 19 1976, of the  Building  Plans for the Auschwitz and Birkenau Crematoria”: http://robertfaurisson.blogspot.com/2010/09/look-back-at-my-discovery-on-march-19.html).
Gerlach, therefore, raises the following objection to Pressac's hypothesis that the crematorium at Mogilev "was to dispose of the bodies of those German soldiers and Soviet POWs who had died of typhoid fever":
In his book Auschwitz: The End of a Legend, Carlo Mattogno writes in regard to Allied aerial photographs taken at Birkenau on May 31, 1944:
Venezia's account is unreal as well as rather disingenuous. First of all, the chimney did not have "a flue", but "flues": three of them. In the second place, each flue was 80 x 120 cm in vertical section, and each one entered a smoke conduit of identical dimensions. For this reason, "a few bricks" would not have obstructed anything. In the third place, when damage occurred, the camp administration turned to the Topf company if the damage involved the ovens, and the Koehler company if the damage involved the smoke conduits and chimney, which were built by Koehler. For example, on 9 May 1944, the Bauleiter of KL II (Birkenau) requested the camp command for "permission" to access Crematoria I-IV" (Genehmigung zum Betreten der Krematorien I-IV) for the Koehler company, because it was assigned with "urgent repair work in the crematoria" (mit dringenden Instandesetzungsarbeiten bei Krematorien beauftragt ist)[229].
But evidence has come to light that the Germans did not lock prisoners inside the trains and machine gun them.
Postscript: For a long time after my visit, I heard nothing at all about any Birmingham study of the camp using ground-penetrating radar. I was disappointed, but not surprised. Then to my astonishment, just one week ago, came a blazing headline in the British paper The Daily Mail: “British archaeologist destroys Holocaust deniers’ argument with mass grave find at Treblinka” (18 January 2012). The short article reads, in part:
The vast numbers killed in what some have termed a ‘Holocaust by bullets’ have slowly garnered greater attention in recent years as historians sift through often sketchy and incomplete records that became available after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
About the controversy around Trump's Holocaust Day statement, Ha'aretz quoted an anonymous Democratic staffer as saying:
One must also not forget that, just as the Soviet Union did, so to did the American and British governments use the Holocaust mythology to hide and obliterate by contrast the awareness of the brutality and mass killing of innocents that they are responsible for. For example, anti-Holocaust revisionist historian Herf admits that the British bombing campaign against Germany resulted in an estimated 500,000 German civilian deaths, disproportionately among women and children.[98] Perhaps now we can understand an underlying motive behind Winston Churchill’s statement on the alleged Jewish Holocaust toward the end of the war. He declared: “There is no doubt that this is probably the greatest and most horrible crime ever committed in the whole history of the world, and it has been done by scientific machinery by nominally civilized men in the name of a great state and one of the leading races of Europe.”[99]
During the course of a night hearing, Jones importuned the Federal Court to jail Dr. Töben for allegedly breaching a four-year-old court order because his website suggested “it is unlikely that there were homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz.”[37]
Let’s look at the numbers a bit more closely. On the orthodox view, the camp began gassing Jews in February 1942. At the time, there were two gassing sites: the main camp crematorium (“Krema 1”) and a small converted farmhouse, or “bunker,” in Birkenau. After a few months, a second, larger Birkenau bunker was added. These three sites sufficed for all of 1942.
Hermann Göring in particular had no reason to lie about his lack of knowledge of a plan by Germany to exterminate European Jewry. As the highest ranking surviving Nazi, Göring’s execution was certain. Göring told his wife Emmy to give up all hope that he would not be executed at Nuremberg.[9] Yet Göring repeatedly and emphatically denied any knowledge of the so-called Holocaust. Göring confided to American psychologist Dr. Gustave Gilbert in his jail cell at Nuremberg:[10]
The forensic evidence, however, refutes the possibility of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. Reports, articles, testimony, books and videos from Fred Leuchter, Walter Lüftl, Germar Rudolf, Friedrich Paul Berg, Dr. William B. Lindsey, Carlo Mattogno, John C. Ball, Dr. Arthur Butz, Dr. Nicholas Kollerstrom, Wolfgang Fröhlich and David Cole have proven that there were no homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. The books The Real Case for Auschwitz by Carlo Mattogno[40] and The Chemistry of Auschwitz by Germar Rudolf[41] are probably the best books available for anyone wanting to make a thorough study of this subject.
Gerlach next outlines a vague yet intriguing hypothesis posed by two other holocaust historians:
In the present article, however, while making a proper distinction about the inaccurate designation of Auschwitz as the demographic center of the Holocaust, and while correctly noting that the main Jewish victims were the Ostjuden, that is, Ashkenazi Jews who had not been assimilated into either West European, German or Hungarian cultures, he then goes on to repeat without examination the now fashionable thesis concerning the Reinhardt camps in which he argues that 1.3 million people were killed at these Bug river camps by the end of 1942.
The present article consists of a comprehensive survey of the hitherto discovered evidence for the presence of “gassed” Jews in the east, and should be regarded as a stepping stone to further future research. Some of the evidence has already been presented in Jürgen Graf and Carlo Mattogno’s study on the Treblinka camp[3], as well as in a recent study on the Sobibór camp[4] which I co-authored together with Graf and Mattogno. It should be mentioned here that many pieces of evidence were located by the Spanish revisionist Enrique Aynat and the late Belgian revisionist Jean-Marie Boisdefeu. The majority of the finds presented below, however, are published here for the first time.
The common-knowledge formula appears already in Section 244 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure. It comprehensively covers the taking of evidence, therefore, among other things, also evidence that is not yet present in the courtroom, and so must first be procured. The list of possible grounds for denial is here still longer. Among other things, this paragraph also empowers the court to totally bar the procurement, that is to say, the acquisition of evidence when the court avers already to know the truth of the matter, no matter whether this truth is in accordance with the claims made by a motion or not. In Galileo Galilei’s time, for example, it was common knowledge that the sun rotated around the earth. Under the application of a similar juridical logic the Inquisition forbade the accused to prove the contrary, since the court pretended to know what was true. Thus, Giordano Bruno ended up burning at the stake, and Galileo in lifelong house arrest.
Indeed, Jewish groups such as the “Institute of Jewish Affairs,” an affiliated agency of the World Jewish Congress, had energetically worked to ensure the passage of anti-revisionist legislation based upon their perceptions that historical revisionism is synonymous with racial anti-Semitism. For over a decade, Jewish groups still rankled over the first Faurisson trial in France, complaining that Professor Faurisson perversely misrepresented the facts of the “Holocaust.”
Reflecting upon the authors and speakers of these statements, it is plain that they were made to further the cause of Zionism. That is not to suggest that there was no truth in them at all. The Nazis clearly discriminated against Jews from the earliest days of the regime and engaged in anti-Semitic rhetoric and intimidation even before achieving power, but it is also clear that this anti-Semitic activity did not approach the extremes that were suggested. Untermeyer’s comments and the Daily Express article mentioned above were made nine years before the Wannsee Conference, two years even before the Nuremberg Laws were passed and only months after Hitler had taken control, yet already described a process of extermination and annihilation which history now tells us did not begin until 1942. Would one modern day, establishment historian agree with their claims? Similarly, Glynn’s article demonstrates that the figure of six million victims and even the word ‘holocaust’ were in use in the circles of Zionist and Jewish speech and writing while Nazism was still little more than a notion in the minds of a few ex-soldiers in Munich bars. Not only that, but as the Wise quotation shows, the six million figure had been touted before, going back to the turn of the century.
U.S. Presidents Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, and George H. W. Bush have all made statements that the United States will never again fail to act to stop something as evil as the genocide of European Jewry. At the dedication of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, President Bill Clinton spoke in a similar vein:[21]
Due to this tremendous overcrowding of the existing inmate accommodations and the at once insufficient sanitary facilities especially in the BIRKENAU camp, new epidemics of typhus, scarlet fever and diphtheria flared up over and over again. The physicians tried everything in their power to fight the resulting epidemics, but almost all employed measures failed. In military respect, the physicians were subordinate to the camp commander, but with respect to medical issues, they had their own office channel and were subordinate to the head of the WVHA’s medical corps, STANDARTENFÜHRER Dr. Lolling, who himself was subordinate to REICHSARZT SS-Obergruppen­f.[ührer] Dr. GRAWITZ.”
Hungary now comes into view. With things looking bad, Hungarian leaders Horthy and Kallay sought to bail out of the Axis and negotiate an independent armistice. Hitler would have none of this, and occupied the country on March 19.The Germans then installed Dome Sztojay as prime minister. Where Horthy had resisted Jewish deportations, Sztojay readily cooperated. At this time the country had some 760,000 Jews, of which about 230,000 were in Budapest. Ghettoization of the Jews began immediately upon occupation; deportations would commence two months later, in mid-May. Almost all the deportees went to Auschwitz: for forced labor, according to Goebbels, or to be gassed, according to traditionalism.
Of course, it’s a usual slander to call Holocaust denial a conspiracy theory. But here’s how you turn the tables (literally): Go to the Nuremberg trial records, the so-called Blue Series, and read Count One of the Indictment (Vol. 1, pp. 29-41). The title is THE COMMON PLAN OR CONSPIRACY, and in the text the word conspiracy appears no less than 15 times. The word conspirators appears 60 times! And as for the Holocaust:
However, in mainstream Western society this is not possible. The Holocaust can be used to discredit and disprove God’s existence, and attack and undermine the Christian religion. (Elie Wiesel has done just that when he claimed that “the sincere Christian knows what died in Auschwitz was not the Jewish people but Christianity.”[11]) Yet, it is not acceptable to debunk the traditional Holocaust story. According to the prevailing mores, it is “evil and immoral” to reject it. This prevailing “moral judgment” was expressed when Vatican spokesman Lombardi said that “denying” the traditional version of the Holocaust can be “a serious sin of lying mixed, in addition, with components of racism and anti-Semitism.”[12]
Altogether, it would be a gross underestimation of German bureaucracy to assume that exact records were not kept of every procedure. At Auschwitz, not a single birth, death, delousing, release, punishment, execution, case of illness or cremation could occur without being reported to Agency Group [Amtsgruppe] D of the SS-WVHA in Oranienburg by the camp commandant's office.
[1] Marcuse, Harold, Legacies of Dachau: The Uses and Abuses of a Concentration Camp, 1933-2001, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001, pp. 43-44, 222.
“As to the question what we are learning in school when history is taught, I can answer simply with the term National Socialism. Nothing else seems to matter. Everything about the Second World War really gets on my nerves. It is always the same. They start with Hitler, then we talk about Anne Frank, and on the day when we should take a walk in the forest, we have to go and see the movie Schindler’s List instead. And this continues when we go to church where in place of learning our religious confirmation instructions we are taught more about the “Holocaust.” The final result is obviously that we just don’t want to hear about that stuff anymore. It drains us emotionally, and eventually leads to callousness.”
According to Reckendrees[18] this version is “probably identical with the one presented in early May” (HB-1) which would mean that the first draft HB-1 is not lost but does still exist in the form of HB-3. If his assumption (HB-3 = HB-1) was true and our little thesis that HB-2 = HB-1 is also true, than HB-3 should also be in agreement with HB-2. However we believe that - as regards content - there are some differences between HB-3 and HB-1/HB-2 although we are momentarily unable to verify our thesis since the HB-3 version is available only in Archiv Sachsenhausen.
Standing there in front of the remains of both buildings, one gets a real sense of the improbability of the conventional story. Each building had an almost completely underground chamber, roughly 30 x 7 meters, at right angles to the main building, which contained the cremation ovens. On the revisionist view, this chamber was a morgue—a large, unventilated, but cool, place to store dead bodies (many infectious) until they could be cremated. On the standard view, this room was the gas chamber—a place in which 2,000 people were collectively gassed in less than 20 minutes. Photo 16 shows the collapsed roof of the Krema 2 chamber as it exists today.
Another significance of the belated campaign to punish Nazi war criminals found in Australia is the impression given that the pursuers are seeking a scalp or seeking Australia’s humble submission beneath the yoke. For example, Aarons complained in 2005 that Australia ‘is the only Western country that took a significant number of Nazis but which has had no success at all in any type of prosecution.’[104]  In 2007 The Australian reported on dissatisfaction in certain Jewish heads about Australia’s action in this context: ‘The Simon Wiesenthal Centre, which is dedicated to finding suspected World War II criminals and helping to prosecute them, gave Australia a fail mark in its annual worldwide report last year. The centre has been highly critical of Australia for failing to track down and prosecute “at least several hundred” Nazi war criminals believed to have found refuge here. “Australia remains the only Western country of refuge which admitted at least several hundred Nazi war criminals and collaborators, which has hereto failed to take successful legal action against a single one,” Dr Zuroff reported in 2005. “Numerous attempts have been made… to convince the Australian authorities to adopt civil remedies – denaturalisation and/or deportation – to deal with Holocaust perpetrators in the country, but the Government has refused to do so.”’[105] Actually it is not so much that Australian governments have been unco-operative, as that Australian law, based in the Constitution and British legal tradition, whose integrity is matched by few other legal systems in the world, has offered high quality protection to persons accused.
The first question is this: Why did he wait so long? In the preface Buergenthal explains that he wants to “recount [his] story to a wider audience [because] the Holocaust cannot be fully understood unless we look at it through the eyes of those who lived through it.” Fine, but why wait 65 years? He has published books since the late 1960s; why wait so long for such an important story? The intervening years can only have obscured his memory—and to his credit he admits as much:
Obviously failing to recognize the irony inherent in his own statements, Cesarani postulated that “Holocaust denial,” rather than despotic laws and legislators who seek to prosecute and imprison individuals for freely expressing their opinions after conducting fully legitimate historical research, constitutes “an attack on truth and democracy.” Artfully employing all the usual catchphrases and buzzwords so often used in the media to elicit the proper emotional response in their intended audience, Cesarani liberally invoked words such as “racism,” and “rehabilitating Nazism,” whilst pleading “If we protect children against violence on TV, control pornography and outlaw racist acts, why should Holocaust survivors be left to the mercy of hate-mongers?”[8 ]
We tried not to believe it. We simply said, ’No, that’s too brutal, too gruesome, too organized.’ Quite frankly, I began to read more and study more about it when I was in this country after 1959. A lot of people asked me, ’How come you guys didn’t know this? You claim you didn’t know anything about it.’ And, I asked myself, ’Well, how come you didn’t know this?’ So I started reading a lot and I started, well, maybe reading with a biased mind, hoping that I would find reason to believe that it was not true. But the evidence piled up. This became more convincing by the day. So I also asked myself, ’Could we have done anything different? Where did the responsibility lie?’ My conclusion was the responsibility lies in the fact that people didn’t do anything about it. They just stood by and closed their eyes and ears. And I think that is true. People just didn’t want to believe it. They didn’t.” (p. 150)
Peter Simple, in a column published in the London Daily Telegraph, added his voice of support for the prime minister, stressing his conviction that “freedom of thought is indivisible: a free people must be free to hold differing opinions, as on other matters, on those events, great and small, and occurring at different times and places which have come to be known collectively as ‘the Holocaust.’ Historians should be as free to conduct impartial research into the details of those events as they would be with any other historical phenomenon. If we make them conform to a previously ordained conclusion, we shall be adopting totalitarian methods of thought- control ourselves.”[16]
"‘Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing,’ answered Holmes thoughtfully; ‘it may seem to point very straight to one thing, but if you shift your own point of view a little, you may find it pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different. It must be confessed, however, that the case looks exceedingly grave against the young man, and it is very possible that he is indeed the culprit.’" —"The Boscombe Valley Mystery" by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
Historian Yitzhak Arad on the other hand states that the chambers in the old building each measured 4 × 4 × 2.6 m[14], while the new chambers measured 4 × 8 × 2 m.[15] The reason for the ceiling being placed lower in the new chambers was, according to Arad, that it
First paragraph:“shooting,” or murder, is only one of at least three options. Genocide is apparently not an alternative. Second: Lochner offers up “eliminated” for the term beseitigt, which simply means ‘removal.’ Again we see the phrase “pay with their lives” (this is the only other occurrence, apart from 13 December 1941), but here Goebbels explicitly refers to “many” of the Jews—not most, not all. And it is merely “desirable,” not essential or mandatory. Furthermore, if a “greater number” are to be liquidated—made fluid, removed—then clearly some percentage will remain. Hence no total elimination. In the well-known entry of March 27, Goebbels suggests that only 60% will be liquidated. For these, Madagascar is still an alternative, as we see below:
Britain’s prime minister at the time, John Major, declared that in his view a “Holocaust denial” law was impractical, but voiced affirmations of empathy for the hurt and distress felt by those who “suffered at that time.” While not committing himself on the issue either way, the prime minister expressed his desire to first consult with members of the Jewish community in order to hear their opinions on the subject as they were the ones “most concerned with this matter.”
With the clarification that the Holocaust is only about Jews, its relevance has been reduced. Many Christians and Poles, for example, thought that they had a stake in the Holocaust, but now they have been told that whatever martyrs they can claim are excluded.
A model for the logistics of the Aktion Reinhardt resettlement program may have been the deportation by Romanian authorities of the Jews of Bessarabia and Bukovina over the Dniestr into the “Transnistrian Reservation.” Between July and early December 1941 some 125,000 to 145,000 Jews were deported across the Dniestr via transit camps near Mogilev, Iampol, Râbnita, Tiraspol, Iaska and Ovidopol, some 80-90% of them via the first-mentioned three camps.[56]
The industrial complex erected by the German government on a Polish army base at Auschwitz (now Oświęcim, Poland) has long been labelled a “death camp” on the strength of the great numbers of people forcibly sent there as part of extensive ethnic-cleansing programs and as laborers as World War II threatened the German homeland. Aside from death, it produced a wide range of chemical products, synthetic rubber chief among these. Its location was dictated by several factors, including good rail connections, access to the energy (coal) resources of Silesia, and its location outside Germany proper, making it a suitable destination for hundreds of thousands of deportees the German government wished to keep out of the “Reich.”
The “Five Million Murdered Gentiles” Myth also demonstrates two other points: how intellectuals like Lipstadt have infused the Holocaust issue with a hypocritical double standard, and how the Holocaust ideology changes according to the propaganda needs of the moment. According to her criteria, it is “morally acceptable” to question, debate and repudiate the story that the Nazis murdered five million non-Jews. Yet, according to the same standards, that the Nazis murdered around six million Jews is “not a matter of debate.”[7] It is “an established fact that needs no validation (p. 222n23).” What lies behind this double standard?
The county of Końskie is located north of Kielce, in what is today’s southern-central Poland. According to the statistics presented by Serge Klarsfeld, a total of 9,902 Jews deported from France were sent to Auschwitz and “gassed upon arrival” in 1944, 7,038 of them between late January and early May 1944.[147] To this should be added 1,152 Jews deported from Belgium in 1944 (between January 15 and July 31) and also claimed to have been “gassed upon arrival” in Auschwitz,[148] as well as some thousands of Jews deported from the Netherlands.[149] On May 2, 1944 the Jewish Telegraphic Agency reported that
One can only stand dumbfounded when faced with these phantasmagoria invented by the  Number  One “Holocaust” historian, with these absurd explanations by the working of the Holy Spirit within the German bureaucracy, this “meeting of minds” described by Hilberg in person as “incredible”; before this recourse to the power of “consensus-mind reading,” this “matter of spirit,” this “shared comprehension,” this “consonance” and “synchronization.” Never, I think, in world historiography has an argument been put forth and defended by the use of notions that belong to such an extent to the realm of magic. And black magic at that, when one thinks of the harmful or criminal effects that the general belief in “the destruction of the European Jews” has since 1945 been able to have on billions of people around the world.
Reynouard in some respects is a soft target. Curtis states that the man has called himself a National Socialist and taken Hitler as his “hero” and a man who “embodied the hope of Europe in the face of the ruinous ideals of 1789.” Well, one can be opposed to the French Revolution without necessarily being an admirer of Hitler and a National Socialist of any kind. Nevertheless, Curtis has effectively called into question Reynouard’s political judgement at this point. There are plenty of other eminent “Holocaust revisionists,” however, from Paul Rassinier to Carlo Mattogno and Germar Rudolf, who have no taint of admiration for Nazism whatever. Curtis has been selective to the point of bias in focusing on Reynouard.
Venezia did not mention this fanciful story even in his book, but here appears a drawing by Olère which represents "the Crematorium II in operation" with the flaming chimney![226].
But according to the official story, those mobile gas chambers were single trucks, not the long trailers attached to trucks. And of course he never witnessed any of them in operation. He only made the connection because of the BBC.
I have managed to find no testimonial evidence contradicting Glazar’s statement that the firewood used for cremations at Treblinka II was taken from wooded areas in the vicinity of the camp.
“Between 450 and 500 persons were crowded into a chamber measuring 25 square meters.”[11]
In itself, this document presents a number of odd formal aspects: there are no fewer than three typing errors and one wonders whether such a letter, addressed to an important man in the SS-administration in Berlin, actually would have left the camp. Aside from that, it states that “the fires were started in the ovens … and they are working most satisfactorily.” Why is this strange? Well, on that very 29 January 1943, there was a meeting between the local representative of AEG, the supplier of the electricals for this crematorium, and Zentralbauleitung, the minutes of which van Pelt publishes on p. 330. The gist of the conversation was that it was impossible to finish the installation of the electricals by the end of January; as a stopgap measure, a limited hook-up by mid-February was aimed for.
The decisive point is that the order issued by Daluege was addressed to the HSSPF, not the SS. The Auschwitz Commandant's office therefore continued to report its Abgänge on a regular basis. On 28 January 1943, Bletchley Park even reported that the Oranienburg office issued an order to compile detailed statistics and to report the exact numbers of deceased inmates and new arrivals.[25]
Stroumsa was an electrical engineer and an amateur violinist. He arrived at Birkenau on May 8, 1943. After spending one month in the camp orchestra, he was transferred to Auschwitz where, after some gardening duties, he managed to find a job fitting his expertise: in a metal factory. In January 1945 he was sent to Mauthausen on a “death march,” then to Gusen, then back to Mauthausen, then Gusen II where he was liberated by the Americans on May 8, 1945. After the war, he lived in Paris before emigrating to Israel in 1967.
The three documents mentioned above, the list of the CANDLES organisation, the list compiled by H. Kubica and the Soviet list of 1945, in addition to the Soviet list of inmates liberated at Birkenau,[39] permit the compilation of a list of 543 twins having passed through Auschwitz:[40] of these, 376 survived until the liberation of the camp; four died in the following months, one died on the evacuation transport on 27 January 1945, and twelve perished during the existence of the camp. Nothing is known of the remaining 154.
An interesting aside is the mention that in 1943 Polish inmates who had run Auschwitz were transferred to Buchenwald. They tried to assume the same position, and were killed by the Communist faction.61
Even though there are many intelligent critiques of democracy as a governmental system,8 I have never seen any of them mentioned in Holocaust-revisionist publications. Those deal with aspects of history, not political theory. There may be some individuals among Holocaust revisionists who prefer authoritarian systems, yet at the same time these individuals complain when their civil rights get curtailed by governments hostile to their views. Well, you can’t have your cake and eat it too.
There is absolutely no understanding or appreciation of just how improper it is for the same person to be advocate, judge and jury in one. Those who rightly uphold the general principle of division of powers in our wider political context should be deeply concerned about the blurring of such responsibilities in quasi-judicial bodies like the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission….. This is the sort of new class law we are evolving – a de facto judicial system in which an accusation is taken as proof and the publicists are also the prosecutors and the judges. Not only that, but determinations of the commission can be registered in the Federal Court and become legally binding – a star chamber usurping the authority of a proper court.[5]
The vast majority of the Jews allegedly gassed in 1944 must in reality have been sent on elsewhere. The only certain answer we can give at this point to the question “where?” is simply this: German-controlled territory. There are, however, as we shall see, some hints as to where these Jews were sent after their arrival at Auschwitz.
The Eichmann Trial actually confirms as true what Lipstadt stridently condemns about Holocaust revisionism. She writes:
The treatment of the Jews in Germany in the years 1933-39 was nowhere cruel. There were a number of boycotts, but there was no public (lynching) murders as in the US nor mysterious deaths and strange accidents as in many other countries. It is obvious that no one finds it pleasant to have their influence and business opportunities limited. On the other hand, from their experience with the Jews, the Germans believed they had a right to introduce these restrictions. In the 1935 Nuremberg Laws, they created the legal basis for this. There was no sign of any intention to exterminate the Jews by genocide. This would have required altogether other measures and preparations..
The Leuchter report confirmed what David Irving must have suspected: The Auschwitz gas chamber story was a hoax. Irving now believed that the Holocaust story would collapse in the near future, and he decided to jump on the revisionist bandwagon. He, David Irving, whose genius the narrow-minded court historians stubbornly refused to acknowledge, would put them all to shame; he would be the first prominent historian to pillory the Auschwitz fraud. Towards the end of the Zündel trial, Irving appeared as a witness for the defense. He endorsed the Leuchter report, which he called a “shattering document.” In 1988 and 1989, he made several speeches disputing the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz: one of these speeches, which he delivered on Austrian soil in 1989, would lead to his arrest and incarceration in Austria sixteen years later.
In the oven room (Photo 11), we had about one minute to view the ovens themselves—“no photos please”—and our guide was off. No chance to ask why the reconstructed chimney was not attached to the ovens. No chance to ask why the six cremation muffles, which could handle six bodies per hour, were such a capacity mismatch with a gas chamber that could kill 800 to 1000 at a shot. Note: it would have taken roughly 150 hours—or more than 6 days working round the clock—to dispose of all the bodies from a single gassing.
The presentation remains, as before, if not “balanced” in terms of the temper of the narrative, at the very least fair and equitable in terms of the presentation of the evidence and of the conclusions following therefrom. And it is in the details (details, details!) of this evidence and these conclusions that Dalton’s readers remain totally free to follow their own dictates of reason and due consideration of evidence. What Dr. Dalton does not countenance, and this he does most tellingly, is acceding to the authoritarian, moralistic, even artful blandishments in which we all are daily immersed to the point of suffocation. In a manner doing credit to all the heroic heretics of history from Herodotus to Harry Elmer Barnes, Dalton propels the reader through the standard litanies, admitting them so to be, of the opposing sides. At the end, the author declares the winner to be: revisionism!
After receiving the results of the test, Leuchter prepared a monograph, thereafter known as the Leuchter Report, combining his personal knowledge of gas chamber facilities and their operation in the United States with the information he had garnered from his onsite inspection of Auschwitz, Birkenau, and Majdanek.
In contrast to that utterly unknown Gestapo torture chamber in Paris, Dachau was one of the best-known German concentration camps. It was the first one to be opened right after the Nazis came to power. When the Americans finally moved in in April 1945, this camp had dominated the fantasy of Nazi opponents for more than a decade. So, did the American psychological warfare executives have a plan? You bet they did! And did they come with hardware and workers to put that plan into action? If they did it in Paris in January 1945, they surely were even more likely to pull it off at Dachau, which was a much more promising propaganda stage.
After Yehuda Bauer in 1989 complained that the Auschwitz death toll was too high to be credible and must be lowered, the official non-Jewish death toll was reduced much more than the official Jewish death toll. Whereas non-Jews were alleged to constitute 37.5% of 4,000,000 victims before 1990, the current "best estimates" according to the USHMM are that non-Jews constitute 11.9% of 1,082,000 victims. The current explicit denial of the 5 million non-Jewish victims is just a confirmation of what Bauer and his ilk have been implying for decades.
The strategic implications of Grass’s fears actually range far beyond those mentioned in his verses, in which he points with exaggeration reminiscent of Wiesel’s descriptions of the Holocaust, to the extermination of the Iranian people by nuclear missiles launched from Israel’s submarines. Yet, in some ways, even that horrific eventuality is an understatement of the scope in which Israel is able to menace humanity with its seaborne nuclear capabilities (capabilities that, in fairness, belong also at least to the United States, Russia, Great Britain, France, China, and soon India).
Note the use of the polemical word “attack,” insinuating an aggression where there is none, because critically analyzing the credibility of testimony belongs to the standard repertoire of any serious scholar. That is exactly why revisionist works are more scholarly – not to say, credible – in nature in this regard than their mainstream counterparts which almost without exception take anecdotal evidence uncritically at face value. In fact, Lipstadt admits that the mainstream narrative of the Holocaust relies heavily on testimony (pp. 23f.):
The witness had built this fictitious scene on the supposition that the gas employed for homicidal purposes was not hydrocyanic acid (the active ingredient of Zyklon B), but "chlorine in a granulated form"[165], and it is known that chlorine has a greater density than air[166], so that if this gas had been introduced into the chamber, it would have first filled the lower layers of air and would have climbed slowly upwards. But as the historian Georges Wellers has noted[167],
The debate on the Munich Agreement surpassed all other parliamentary debates on British foreign policy since World War I. Other Conservatives who refused to accept the Munich Agreement included Harold Macmillan, Duncan Sandys, Leopold Amery, Harold Nicolson, Roger Keyes, Sidney Herbert, and Gen. Edward Spears. These men were joined by a score of lesser figures in the House of Commons, and they were supported by such prominent people as Lord Cranborne and Lord Wolmer in the House of Lords. Chamberlain won the vote of confidence, but he did not possess the confidence of the British Conservative Party.[53]
Nadjari says that, after one-half hour in the gas chamber (another figure attributed to Höss), he and others in the Sonderkommando would remove the corpses and take them to be cremated. Here, again, Nadjari supplies some interesting details. First, Nadjari says that the corpses were flammable:
After due consideration of Mr. Grumbach’s published opinions relative to “Holocaust denial,” the rationale prompting his comment that, “The main concern of the Court and the Associations and civil plaintiffs was to avoid making the history of the Second World War the central issue of the trial” becomes more vividly understood.[34]
Blaha signed an affidavit on January 9, 1946, in which he described his experience with the Dachau gas chamber. It is in German, but an English translation was read into the record during the Nuremberg Tribunal as follows:[19]
Ten persons who did contribute major scholarly works as of late 1992 are not on Dr. Lipstadt’s list. And we apologize in case we missed anyone.[22] Not all of them are of equal value, and we are listing them here only to show that Dr. Lipstadt either has no clue what Holocaust revisionism is all about, or that she is maliciously hiding it from her readers.
One would have expected the ESC to present the results of its own special commission in its final report. After all, this commission had carried out its investigation at the Sachsenhausen camp during several weeks, and at that time there were still plenty of former inmates who could be questioned. Significantly, the commission had nothing concrete to say about the alleged mass shootings of Soviet POWs. The former detainee and crematorium worker Paul Sakowski, who had been forced to participate in the ”Russenaktion“ and later became a key witness of these events, had been in NKVD custody since the beginning of June 1945 where he was repeatedly interrogated, but he only submitted his detailed written testimony in early 1946. At any rate, the ESC preferred the ”confession“ of the deceased Franz Ziereis to the testimony of Paul Sakowski who was still very much alive. After all, a dead witness cannot speak any more and a dead ”perpetrator” cannot retract his confessions.
A series of twelve photos showing real execution gas chambers (in the United States) with their doors and, at the bottom, four photos showing the doors of a false gas chamber (at Auschwitz).
For many influential non-Jewish, American and European liberals, belief in the Holocaust has replaced belief in God as the supreme virtue. Expressing a widely held sentiment among liberal US political elites, Teresa Heinz Kerry, wife of former presidential candidate John Kerry, stated in the highly influential Forward: “Need it be said again? The gas chambers, the bureaucratic system of murder, the efforts to sever an entire people from their place in the world, did happen, did exist and remains a unifying cause for those who choose justice, now and forever more.”[91] Thus, for left-leaning Gentile liberals, the Holocaust ideology is a motivating force for social action.
This photo is of a vehicle alleged to be a gas van from the Chelmno Concentration Camp. It is asserted to have been taken prior to 1945.
So, if the growth of Holocaust Revisionism is not (as Jones supposes) an important underlying cause of the German protests against lockdowns and mandatory vaccinations, it is nonetheless a very likely effect.
The court document which Hilberg refers to[135]—which the author has not had the opportunity to access—apparently refers to other transport lists than those kept at NARA, because the latter lists three Osttransporte from Berlin departing in November and December 1942: One transport on 20 November with 1,021 deportees, a second on 14 December with 813 deportees and a third on 15 December with 1,061 deportees. For none of these transports is a destination listed. Danuta Czech in her Kalendarium lists no transports from Berlin as having arrived in Auschwitz during December or the last days of November; the next listed arrival from Berlin, with 1,000 deportees (no documentary source is stated for this entry), is on 13 January 1943[136]—this is most likely identical with the Osttransport listed in the NARA transport lists as departing Berlin on January 12 (here the number of deportees is given as 1,190).
The “Auschwitz-Erlaß” required the following, among other things:
In 1984 a book written by Joan Peters, entitled From Time Immemorial: The Origins of the Arab-Jewish Conflict over Palestine, was released to the world. The book claimed that the Palestinians were not resident in Palestine long-term, but were recent arrivals, having come to take advantage of economic opportunities in Palestine which were largely the result of Zionist Jewish settlement. What a perfect way for us Zionist Jews to massage ourselves (I was one at the time!) and drive a wedge between ourselves and the growing awareness about Palestine in the world around us! So it really was a “land without people for a people without a land”! Those Arabs were all immigrants! And how ungrateful that they hate us after all the opportunity we gave them! A wave of related claims surfaced among the Zionist community. An essay by Mark Twain describing his touring of a sparsely populated 19th century Palestine, was offered up into the mix of “Palestinian-denier” evidence. Twain, whose writing was full of humorous and ironic opposition to human bullshit, was no doubt rolling in his grave over this. And claims were often heard that prominent Palestinians, from Edward Said to Yassir Arafat, were “not really Palestinian”.
“The fifth of this strange category of men was a former SS soldier, who pretended he had belonged for a time to the guard unit of Mauthausen. He told me there had been gas chambers where not only Jews, but also other inmates had been killed. He himself had not seen that, but it was no secret in the camp. I [Warwick] visited this camp in the same year. Even the Jews did not pretend that humans had been gassed there. There was no installation which in any way could be used [for that purpose] …”
What seems to me to be crucial to any analysis [of the Holocaust] is the fact that Judenpolitik was central to the whole National Socialist movement, indeed that the very aims, the distinctiveness, and the uniqueness of National Socialism as a historical phenomenon were determined by its Judenpolitik. … Hitler himself had…developed a worldview in which anti-Semitism held a central position: it was the linchpin for all the various ideological clichés… (pp. 5, 15)
There now occurred another memorable exchange. The Chairman turned to a Mr. Pearce, a representative of the prestigious Victorian Council for Civil Liberties, and asked him: “Mr. Pearce, what do you say about that? Do you agree with what Mr. Jackson said?” Pearce replied: “With virtually none of what he said.”[76] It amazed and disappointed me that this man said nothing in support of my free speech position and nothing about the way in which Leibler had clearly misrepresented me. I had the conviction that foremost in his mind was the desire not to be associated in any way at all with what he regarded as “anti-Semitism.” And, if I am correct, that shows the degree to which a taboo has infected Australian society: an eleventh commandment – “Say no ill of the Jews.” Pearce went on to argue, effectively I thought, that Holocaust denial would become illegal if the bill was passed. Along the way he remarked: “We are here to talk about this bill and not the international Zionist controversy.”[77]
Typhus was the primary reason for the huge piles of dead bodies at Dachau when U.S. troops entered the camp. Dr. Charles P. Larson, an American forensic pathologist, was at Dachau and conducted hundreds of autopsies at Dachau and some of its sub-camps. Dr. Larson stated in regard to these autopsies: “Many of them died from typhus. Dachau’s crematoriums couldn’t keep up with the burning of the bodies. They did not have enough oil to keep the incinerators going. I found that a number of the victims had also died from tuberculosis. All of them were malnourished. The medical facilities were most inadequate. There was no sanitation…”[11]
[19] Turley, Mark, “Genocide at Nuremberg,” Inconvenient History, Vol. 1, No. 3, Winter 2009.
In her Denying the Holocaust, Lipstadt defined “conspiracy” as “premeditated distortions introduced for political ends.”[5] So, by Lipstadt’s own criteria, Wiesenthal could be considered a Jewish-Zionist conspirator, because he told the world a premeditated distortion (that five million non-Jews were murdered by the National Socialists) in order to serve a political goal (gain non-Jewish interest in the Holocaust, an ideology that serves the needs of political Zionism).
[23] Black, Edwin, IBM and the Holocaust: The Strategic Alliance between Nazi Germany and America’s Most Powerful Corporation, New York: Crown Publishers, 2001, pp. 1, 7, 13.
The late Joseph Bellinger had intended the current article to be a chapter in a book that remained unpublished at the time of his death, The Prohibition of “Holocaust Denial.” — Ed.[1]
Und es ist wichtig festzuhalten, dass die meisten derjenigen, die auf diesem Foto zu sehen sind, keine Juden sind, sondern in erster Linie nichtjüdische politische Gefangene, einschließlich Polen, Russen und Zeugen Jehovas. Diese mehrheitlich nichtjüdischen Opfer alliierter Bombardements eines ehemaligen Arbeitslagers werden missbraucht, um einen angeblichen jüdischen Holocaust zu verhökern.
Q. We will show you how we found the gas chambers. (Captain FREUD makes a sketch). I show you the chambers of RIGA. These rooms had once been shower baths. The SS was standing armed on the roof, the people were driven into the yard, then the doors were locked and the SS pushed the people into the rooms, allegedly to take a shower bath. They were told that, then the doors were locked and the ZYKLON gas was sprinkled through the holes in the ceiling. After ten minutes the people could be brought to the incinerator, How many of these installations did you see?
February. The second edition of Rassinier’s Le Mensonge d’Ulysse is published by Macon. This volume incorporates most of Rassinier’s 1949 book on his experience as a concentration camp inmate, Le Passage de la ligne.
An enlargement reveals no evidence that 325 people were working in the ravine finishing the cremation of 33,000 bodies just one week earlier, for many truckloads of fuel would have had to be brought in, and there are no scars from vehicle traffic either on the grass and shrubs at the side of the Jewish cemetery or in the ravine where the bodies were supposedly burned.
[13] Rudolf, Germar, The Chemistry of Auschwitz: The Technology and Toxicology of Zyklon B and the Gas Chambers. A Crime-Scene Investigation, Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2017 https://shop.codoh.com/book/the-chemistry-of-auschwitz-en/449/.
Photo 10: Alleged Gas Chamber Krema 1
Surprisingly perhaps, the first issue is far easier to clarify than the second. Of course, there's been no suppression of free inquiry into the Holocaust. It is precisely because of extensive and vigorous research by bona fide scholars over the past three decades that we know not only several of the facts that Smith manipulates in his ad, but also a good many that he does not want you to believe.
Rudolf’s case provided the usual suspects with the pretext they needed to try and reintroduce legislation outlawing “Holocaust denial” in Great Britain.
On the strength of this work, Tooze faces no danger whatsoever of its publication in Germany falling foul of the Holocaust-denial laws that ultimately landed Irving in an Austrian jail—his affirmation of the horror, if not the crime, of the Holocaust is fulsome. On the other hand, he also makes it abundantly clear that the exigencies of the wars Germany had to fight made mass death from hunger and hunger-related diseases utterly unavoidable, and renders the awareness that a Holocaust had to happen to some large group quite explicit; the impression that Germany practically “couldn’t help” something much like the Holocaust seems to lie only one short step beyond the point to which this narrative takes the attentive reader.
Those are the only two mentions of Jews in Hitchcock's film. Apart from the emphasis on Jewish deaths at Buchenwald, Hitchcock's film, like other films of the period, portrays a universality of victimhood. The claim that the commandant of Buchenwald wanted Jewish deaths is an anomaly in Hitchcock's film. (The falsity of this claim is evident in the fact that there never was a commandant of Buchenwald named Schoker: the two commandants were Koch, 1937-1941, and Pister, 1942-1945.)
Goldfarb’s statement that the victims “were all standing upright and were like one single mass of flesh” is also not credible. Many of the dead victims would have fallen to the floor no matter how crowded the gas chambers. The dead victims would not have been “like one single mass of flesh.”
Freda Utley’s wisdom and insight as presented in The High Cost of Vengeance have been vindicated a thousandfold in the half-century since her shocking tale was published. A 2013 poll conducted by the BBC found Germany the most-admired country in the world—quite a contrast from the reviled outcast from western civilization depicted by her opponents in the last world war, and still, as the Folks Who Brought You the Holocaust.
9. Confronting genocide denial: using the law as a tool in combating genocide denial in Rwanda
I repeat: Polish forensic scientists cannot imagine how 250,000 people could be murdered at Sobibor. Nevertheless, Moshe Bahir, whom the German legal system believed to be a credible witness, claimed that four times 250,000 were murdered at the site! Fuchs claims that 100,000 more than the wild exaggeration of 250,000 were killed at Sobibor. Erich Fuchs is a looked upon as an important source for the “facts” about Sobibor.
The “Holocaust debate” is, at least for the defenders of the regnant account, something of a kabuki dance. The tiny, furious cadre of revisionists dances impotently around the lumbering bulk of the defenders, throwing vicious punch after punch and landing them solidly with practically no visible effect on the immovable monolith. The monolith, for its part, contents itself mostly with the occasional utterance of epithets like “denier,” “conspiracy theories,” “anti-Semitic,” “neo-Nazi,” or just plain “Nazi.” But now and then, the holders of the impregnable heights deign to go through the motions of refuting or even opposing the fulminations of the indefatigable corporal’s guard that presumes to attack its iron grip on opinion and information. Even these feigned responses to “denial” or—on a good day—“revisionism” are but listless shadow-boxing, in which well-paid hacks gather for colloquia in expensive venues, there mostly to ignore the particulars so stridently proclaimed by the revisionists, never to address any of them by name, and for the most part to pass off mere repetitions of their own observations as vigorous counterattack. This suffices for their benefactors, and insults and infuriates the revisionists who seek at least counterargument, if not explicit acknowledgement of their personal existences.
Into 1944, Auschwitz is the only one of the six ‘death camps’ to remain in operation. It is now fully geared up to support the war effort, making use of all available slave labor. Some 20,000-30,000 Jews are allegedly gassed there each month. But it’s clear that this would have been a tremendous waste of manpower at a particularly critical point in the war. For the most part, though, there is no doubt that by this time German society had been largely cleared of Jews. Goebbels comments accordingly:
Those who would suppress historical revisionism, and Holocaust revisionism in particular, have a deadly enemy which they cannot defeat and which, in their heart of hearts, they know to be invulnerable: truth.
Eines ist sicher: Wir können offenbar nicht alles glauben, was wir über den Holocaust hören, denn die Dinge, die wir hören, widersprechen einander oft.
This is the only reason why Engineer Schultze, after having created the project of the whole ventilation system of the new crematorium, changed the power of the motors of all air-blowers.
Ciò è la prova più evidente che il Vaticano dell’olocaustianesimo, il museo dell’olocausto di Gerusalemme, lo yad-vashem […”questo mausoleo di Yad Vashem sia stato costruito sulle terre e le rovine del villaggio martire di Ein Kerem… e di fronte a quello che era Deir Yassin”…”ce mémorial Yad Vashem a été construit sur les terres et les ruines du village martyr de Ein Kerem… et en face de ce qui fut Deir Yassin” ,Ziyad Clot “Il n’y aura pas d’Etat palestinien“ (Max Milo Editions) (http://www.michelcollon.info/Memento-1-Le-genocide-n-est-pas.html?lang=fr#_ednref24)], ha nel suo database di morti più errori e falsi! Quanti non è dato, ancora, di sapere, ma determinante è sapere che contiene dei falsi, e di varia natura come documentato, anche, dal ricercatore Carlo Mattogno (vedere qui).
The orthodox narrative has it that during the deportation of the Hungarian Jews in late spring and summer of 1944, the crematories could not keep up with the thousands of corpses. So some pits were dug in the northern backyard of Crematorium V to burn them, in addition to similar burning pits dug near the so-called Bunker 2 outside of the camp proper. What does Cohen have to say about this?
Widmann: You’ve tried your hand at many things throughout your life.  I know you were in the army during the Korean War, you were a bookseller, a bull-fighter, and of course an activist for intellectual freedom with regard to the Holocaust debate.  How would you like to be remembered?
Sturdy Colls has proven herself able to produce inconsequential and even embarrassing results. For example, rather than digging at the site of the mass graves—which is conveniently covered over in concrete—she conducted a small excavation nearby, at the site of a pre-war cemetery. She found… human remains. A greater embarrassment was her finding of a fragment of an orange tile “with a Star of David on it.” Such tiles, she says, “fit in with the idea that we are in the area of the gas chambers.” She adds that this reminds her of claims that Stars of David were placed on the outside of the gas chambers, to lull the Jewish victims into a sense of complacency. In reality, the tile was a product of a long-established Polish ceramics firm, Dziewulski i Lange. Their brand logo was a six-sided mullet star that resembles the Jewish star, though having no connection to it. It was stamped on the back of their tiles.
“The alleged Hitlerite gas chambers and the alleged genocide of the Jews form one and the same historical lie, which has permitted a gigantic political and financial swindle whose main beneficiaries are the state of Israel and international Zionism and whose main victims are the German people – but not their leaders – and the Palestinian people in their entirety.”
On January 21, 2015, Reuters listed numerous Jewish survivors who were young children while in Auschwitz-Birkenau. These include Jacek Nadolny, who was only age seven when sent to Auschwitz-Birkenau, and Zofia Wareluk, who was born in Auschwitz two weeks before the camp was liberated. Other Jewish survivors who were no older than age 10 while in Auschwitz-Birkenau include Elzbieta Sobczynska, Henryk Duszyk, Danuta Bogdaniuk-Bogucka, Janina Reklajtis and Barbara Doniecka.[17] The survival of so many young Jewish children at Auschwitz-Birkenau is not consistent with a German policy of genocide against the Jews.
What then have the Holocaust historians to say about the events at Rumbula? The entry on the Riga ghetto in a voluminous encyclopedia of ghettos and camps which appeared in the United States in 2012 sums up the events as follows:
Many other people have concluded that Hess flew to Great Britain with Hitler’s full knowledge and approval. For example, Georg Bernhard wrote in The New York Times: “It is now apparent to everybody that Rudolf Hess flew to England with the full consent of Adolf Hitler. It was his job to bring peace between Germany and England.”[23] J. Bernard Hutton wrote, “Hess’s historic flight to Britain was made with Hitler’s full knowledge and approval.”[24] Willis Carto also wrote, “The evidence is strong that Hess risked his life for peace under orders from Adolf Hitler.”[25]
In the fall of 2008, Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, in her debate with her Democratic rival Joe Biden, also invoked the Holocaust ideology as a “justification” for any future American military action against Iran. Bush and Palin are two influential, Christian Zionist politicians who firmly believe that support for Israel and Zionism is in the best interests of the United States—and they used the Holocaust ideology as a “justification” for their agenda.
Bilder von Nordhausen sind heute als Beweis für einen jüdischen Holocaust weit verbreitet. Warum ist gerade dieses Bild so beliebt? Die Leichen, die von den Briten gesprengt oder erschossen, dann aus Kratern oder Gebäudetrümmern gezogen und von den Amerikanern in Reih und Glied hingelegt wurden, sollen eine geordnete deutsche Methode des Massenmordes suggerieren. Offenbar will man uns glauben machen, die Deutschen hätten diese Gefangenen hier in Reih und Glied antreten lassen und hätten sie erschossen, wo sie standen. Wären diese Toten deutsche Soldaten, würden sich die Briten für diese glänzende Leistung auf die Schulter klopfen. Stattdessen schoben die Alliierten die Schuld an ihrer Bombardierungs- und Beschießungspanne schlicht auf die Deutschen ab. Was für ein entsetzlicher Betrug, der direkt vor unseren Augen abgezogen wird. Bilder von tragischen Todesfällen, die das direkte Ergebnis alliierter Handlungen waren, werden zynisch ausgebeutet, um eine Lüge zu verkaufen.
While the film pretends to show a “scientifically designed gas chamber,” it does not claim that Jews in particular were gassed. There is only an allusion to persecution of Jews through the use of the word pogroms, as only one aspect of the general phenomenon of German inhumanity, where the Germans are described as:
“From the very beginning we had asked ourselves what was this concentration camp. Would we see our loved ones again? They had been so abruptly taken from us. We had not even had the chance to say good-bye. We had heard that they had been killed, that there were crematories where the corpses were burned, but we did not want to believe such rumors. We thought that these stories were just another means of terrifying us. However, these rumors were true!” (p. 17)
In view of the fact that the messages from Auschwitz contain no mention of gas chambers or mass murders, the real question is: what was there really for anybody to "know" about? In other words: was there any Holocaust at all? Regardless of the general belief that hardly any historical event has ever been so thoroughly "proven," one must, once again, expressly point out that, until the present, not one single material or documentary proof for the reality of any mass killings in gas chambers has ever been found. The only thing that exists, at most, is mutually contradictory "eyewitness testimonies" and "confessions," which can, at least in the latter case, easily be shown to have been given under duress.
In May 1944, Birkenau also became a “transit camp” for the distribution of Jewish manpower into other concentration camps.
The mass murder of the Jews at Auschwitz using gas chambers is said to have started sometime in early 1942. For this purpose, the interior of an old farmhouse in the vicinity of the Birkenau Camp is said to have been converted into a set of homicidal gas chambers. Czech claims that this building was put into operation on March 20. The sources she quotes for this event (statements by R. Höss and P. Broad), however, do not confirm her date. In fact, the sources are not specific regarding the exact date and contradict each other to some degree.
Les historiens affirment que les Juifs déportés à Treblinka étaient gazés dans leur quasi-totalité car on n'y pratiquait pas la sélection comme à Auschwitz entre les aptes au travail et les inaptes; les SS en épargnaient juste l'un ou l'autre pour les aider dans leur sinistre travail puis ils les éliminaient en fin d'opération.
The insidious effect of reading the lies and exaggerations in the Holocaust literature is to lose one’s identity as a European Christian. Therefore, the ‘gas chamber’ tale and some other false Holocaust allegations serve to dispossess European Christians from their history, and in doing so, in seeking to destroy a people’s history, a symbolic genocide replaces a physical one.
The earliest such explorations were conducted between 1997 and 1999 at the site of the former Bełżec Camp.[2] While major amounts of disturbed soil were located, the amount of human remains discovered was minimal, and no trace of any building was found that resembles even remotely what witnesses have described as the homicidal gas chamber.[3]
Lipstadt speculates on the motivation of Holocaust revisionists: “The indispensable element of the ideology of both [Holocaust] perpetrators and [Holocaust] deniers is a deep-seated Jew hatred (p. 129).” She confuses “hatred” with “moral outrage.” The responsible Revisionists that I associate with do not “hate Jews.” Just as Lipstadt would probably tell you that her indignation over Wiesenthal's Holocaust lie motivated her to expose it, Revisionists too are outraged by the Holocaust lies they are inundated with and which, in turn, they feel motivated to expose. Unfortunately, possibly due to the Jewish ethnocentrism that others see within her, (p. 10) Lipstadt is unwilling to acknowledge this.
Three years earlier, in 1976, an American academic, Arthur Robert Butz, had published on the subject of the alleged extermination of the Jews a masterful book entitled The Hoax of the Twentieth Century. In 1985 and again in 1988 in Toronto, at the trials of Ernst Zündel, the revisionists annihilated first Raul Hilberg, the Number One historian for the exterminationist case, then Rudolf Vrba, the  Number  One witness of the alleged criminal gassings at Auschwitz, and finally, thanks in particular to the examinations made by Fred Leuchter, the whole myth of the gassings was at the point of death. Afterwards this central element, the “heart” of the charges against the Germans of the Third Reich, would be seen slowly disintegrating. For example, in 1988, Arno Mayer, professor of history at Princeton, wrote: “Sources for the study of the gas chambers are at once rare and unreliable” (Why Did the Heavens Not Darken? The “Final Solution” in History, New York, Pantheon Books, p. 362). Other researchers, who before had trumpeted their certainty of the existence of those “gas chambers”, have ended up admitting that there is no proof thereof. The Frenchman Jean-Claude Pressac, protégé of Beate and Serge Klarsfeld – themselves “hunters of former Nazis” – went so far as to acknowledge that the whole dossier of the history of the wartime deportation was “rotten” with too many lies and that this dossier, notwithstanding the real sufferings of so many deportees, was henceforth good only for the “rubbish bins of history”; Pressac wrote that in 1995 but his capitulation was revealed only in 2000. To those wishing to learn more about the matter I would recommend my study on “The Victories of Revisionism” of December 11, 2006 (http://codoh.com/library/document/99/).
Sington left Kramer at the entrance of the camp and rushed on to advise Colonel Taylor of the conditions existing there. Within minutes Sington arrived at the administrative offices of a Panzer Training School located a half mile up from the Belsen camp, where Taylor was at that very moment negotiating the peaceful surrender of the camp with two impeccably dressed German Wehrmacht colonels. Before Sington could interject a word into the conversation, a British medical officer rushed in and announced, "There have been some casualties down at the concentration camp." The telephone suddenly rang, and one of the German officers picked up the receiver and took the message. Placing the receiver back on the hook, he turned to the assembled men and announced, "It appears that a loud-speaker went into the camp and that it has started a disturbance."[18]
The “Extraordinary State Commission” (ESC, from Russian ЧГК, an acronym for Чрезычайная Государственная Комисссия) was created in November 1942 in order to detect and investigate “crimes perpetrated by the German Fascist Invaders” and the damage caused by them. After the Red Army had reconquered Soviet territories previously occupied by the Germans, this commission became very active on all local levels, including the most remote villages. Tens of thousands of witnesses were questioned, and in important cases reports based on the pertinent testimony were drawn up in Moscow. Many of these reports were then published in Pravda, thus acquiring the status of official Soviet documents. During the Nuremberg trial more than 500 ESC reports were submitted to the court as incriminating evidence and registered as “USSR documents”. Still today these documents profoundly condition the presentable view of “German war crimes in Eastern Europe” and “atrocities committed in National Socialist concentration camps”.
An admission of ‘imprudence’ turned out not to be quite adequate. Fifty Catholic members of the United States Congress then wrote to Pope Benedict to express their "deep concerns." They wrote, "We do not question your reasons for revoking the excommunication of Bishop Williamson or your right to do so, but we fail to understand why the revocation was not accompanied by an emphatic public rejection of his denial of the Holocaust."[3]
The stunning conclusion of this research: in nearly seventy years, neither the International Military Tribunal (IMT) at Nuremberg (1945-1946) nor any of the numerous other courts which have had to try cases of alleged crimes committed using gas chambers (or gas vans) has ordered a single forensic examination. Better still: at the “Auschwitz Trial” in Frankfurt, running from December 20, 1963 to August 20, 1965, an inspection of certain points of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp was held from December 14 to 16, 1964; one of the judges, Hotz, participated along with four prosecutors; however, it appears that the five men dispensed with any detailed inspection of the places where so many criminal gassings, followed by so many cremations, were said to have occurred. How can it be? A huge show trial had focused, twenty years after the war, on Auschwitz, capital of the greatest crime in world history, and the judges-accusers made not the faintest effort to inquire as to how such mass murder was first conceived, then perpetrated – and all over a period of years? Never has anyone been able to provide me with a copy of forensic examinations of the “crime of Auschwitz.” I have been smothered with testimonies, stories, confessions, and history books of which I have imposed on myself the most scrupulous reading but, all told, only to discover vague accounts defying the laws of physics or chemistry. One forensic examination, and one only, would have sufficed.
Jean-Pierre Pradervand, head of the delegations of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in France, went to inspect the French camp at Thorée les Pins in the late summer of 1945. This camp was already known in the village nearby as “Buchenwald” after the notorious German camp. Two thousand of the men at the camp were already so far gone that nothing could save them. Twenty of the prisoners died that day while Pradervand was there. Approximately 6,000 of the prisoners would soon be dead unless they were immediately given food, clothing, shelter and medical care. All of the remaining prisoners were undernourished.
May-June. Ludwig Paulin publishes the article “Die Lüge von den 238,000. Was geschah im Lager Dachau?” (The Lie of the 238,000. What happened in Camp Dachau?) in Der Weg, Vol. 8, No. 5-6, pp. 349-358. Paulin disputes the existence of a gas chamber at the camp and also argues that the Dachau cremation ovens did not have the capacity to incinerate the (at this time) alleged 238,000 victims.
There is little question that the Holocaust mythology still thrives and flourishes, for the most part, because it is thrust upon the world by aggressive Jewish-Zionist groups, but this is far from the entire story. Again, the success of Israel and Jewish-Zionist groups in promoting the Holocaust mythology must be placed in the surrounding milieu of non-Jewish interests. Some of the world’s other most powerful groups—the American, British and Russian governments, along with “lesser powers” like the German and Polish governments—and other non-Jewish factions, also have a vested interest in promoting the same story. Indeed, time and space considerations did not permit me to discuss many other non-Jewish groups (e.g.., the French government, French political factions) that benefit by promoting the Holocaust ideology.
Censorship in Europe: The red countries have outlawed the dissemination of revisionist research results on the Holocaust.
It was a farce on both sides. Austria was looking for a pretext for war. This was the sixth atrocity in four years, and amid unrelenting irredentist agitation Vienna was determined on the final solution of the Serb question.
[9] Rudolf, Germar, “Holocaust Victims: A Statistical Analysis,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 184.
“Indeed, it seems today as if Holocaust denial is the main aspect of the far right ‘history’ and conspiracy theory, and that other conspiracy theories about Jews stem from this idea rather than the other way around.” (p. 12)
I have the impression that this court has something to hide, otherwise it would permit the expert witness to testify. I understand that the prosecuting attorney and the court is under political pressure. Nevertheless, the accused must be given the opportunity to prove his statements. It is intolerable that in a society of law that you can prevent me from questioning the expert witness about his on-site work, and then reject him because he was not asked about this. You are preventing any discussion of a matter of evidence.[19]
In his 1980 book The Terrible Secret holocaust historian Walter Laqueur chronicles how the “facts” concerning the alleged mass extermination of Jews were disseminated during the war years, and the reasons why these “facts” were more often than not disbelieved or at least met with cautious skepticism. In his survey of contemporary news reports Laqueur manages to exclude those most blatantly contradicting the extermination camp hypothesis, but there is still one passage of interest to us, namely his description of the 1942 reports of Zionist delegate Meleh “Noi” Neustadt:[61]
Lawrence concomitantly expressed his personal revulsion towards Professor Arthur Butz of Northwestern University, who had authored the controversial groundbreaking book The Hoax of the Twentieth Century, which questions the scope and extent of National Socialist Germany’s persecution of the Jews and disputes the claims of homicidal gas chambers in the concentration camps.
The depths of travesty that can be plumbed by such stratagems might best be illustrated by the “resolution” implemented by then-Attorney General Janet Reno of the impasse at the premises of the Branch Davidians in Waco, Texas in 1993. In order to, as she put it, put a stop to abuse of young children in the besieged group by their own parents, she employed—that’s right—poison gas, along with fire, just, it would seem, to make the assault a true holocaust. Among the 76 fatalities were 22 children under 18, plus one more unborn. Did the government kill these children, or did the Branch Davidians, during the battle? Does it matter? Could one even decide? It seems inescapable that the “rescue” killed them.
As the number of Holocaust survivors gradually declines, these documents or witness accounts — from Belarus, Ukraine, parts of Russia and the Baltic States — have illuminated a new picture of the Nazis’ methods.
2. Evidence:
Remark: There is here an extraordinary concession to the revisionist case. In effect, such a formidable criminal undertaking supposedly conceived, ordered, organised and perpetrated by the Germans would have necessitated an order, a plan, instructions, a budget, … Such an undertaking, carried out over several years on a whole continent and generating the death of millions of victims, would have left a flood of documentary evidence. Consequently, if we are told that there perhaps has never existed any such documentary evidence, it is because the crime in question was not perpetrated. In the complete absence of documents, the historian has no longer anything to do but keep quiet. L. Poliakov made this concession in 1951, that is, fifty-five years ago. However, it must be noted that, from 1951 to 2006, his successors have equally failed to find the least documentary evidence. Occasionally, here and there, we have witnessed attempts at making us believe in such or such discovery but each time, as will be seen below, the “discoverers” and their publicists have had to drop their claim.
By contrast, Germany built highly sophisticated and expensive disinfestation facilities at Auschwitz/Birkenau to kill lice and save inmate lives. By one estimate, the SS at Auschwitz spent almost $1 billion in today’s values to bring the typhus epidemics raging there under control.[22] An enormous amount of information exists concerning these German delousing facilities[23], but no similar information exists regarding the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau.[24]
Through his efforts in the years that followed, millions of Americans learned for the first time about Holocaust revisionism and the scholarly debate on this chapter of history. In the mid-1980s, he published Prima Facie, a newsletter aimed at journalists and editors, quoting their own writings, that focused on cultism, suppression of free inquiry and censorship on the Holocaust issue.
Responding to Roosevelt’s pressure, the next day Chamberlain ended Britain’s policy of cooperation with Germany when he made a speech at Birmingham bitterly denouncing Hitler. Chamberlain also announced the end of the British “appeasement” policy, stating that from now on Britain would oppose any further territorial moves by Hitler. Two weeks later the British government formally committed itself to war in case of German-Polish hostilities.
The allegation that 6-million Jews were murdered during World War II is today widely considered an established historical fact. For example, the Encyclopedia Judaica states, “There can be no doubt as to the estimated figure of some 6 million victims.”[1] The U.S. Holocaust Museum in Washington, D.C. has described itself in its information sheet as a “living memorial to the 6-million Jews and millions of other victims of Nazi fanaticism who perished in the Holocaust.” However, an analysis of the number of 6-million Jewish wartime deaths shows that this figure is not the result of any meaningful investigation, research or calculation.
All to no avail for, from 1991 to 1994, historical revisionism, showing itself to be the great intellectual adventure of the end of the century, found, with its disputing of the existence of the gas chambers and the genocide, a powerful echo in Paris and elsewhere in France, as well as in Stockholm, London, Brussels, Munich, Vienna, Warsaw, Rome, Madrid, Boston, Los Angeles, Toronto, Melbourne and, later, in Tehran and the Arab-Moslem world. There was an increase in revisionist research and in the number of publications, in various languages.
[26] Veneziz, Shlomo, Inside the Gas Chambers: Eight Months in the Sonderkommando of Auschwitz, Malden, Mass.: Polity Press, 2009, p. xi.
Really, that was quite an accomplishment for defense counsel, since Article 21 of the IMT charter read: 'The Tribunal shall not demand evidence about the commonly known facts and will consider them proved. The Tribunal shall likewise accept without evidence the official government documents and reports of the United Nations, including protocols and documents of the committees created in various allied countries for an investigation of the war crimes, proceedings and sentences of military or other tribunals of each of the United Nations.' That is worth re-reading and pondering closely. It is how many innocent Germans were convicted and executed at Nuremberg.
At the Nuremberg trial, Germany’s accusers chose the steam version. On December 14, 1945, the Polish government issued a document which was presented by the Soviets in Nuremberg and according to which “several hundreds of thousands” of people had been exterminated at Treblinka by means of steam.[35] By 1946, the official version had already changed. As it was simply not credible that the Germans would have used such varied killing methods in the three Reinhardt camps, the steam chambers, electric killing installations etc. were relegated to the dustbin of history and replaced by diesel engines. The reason for this choice was undoubtedly the Gerstein report. In early 1946, this report – which decades later was brilliantly analyzed by French revisionist Henri Roques[36] – had monopolized the attention of the historians, and Gerstein, who claimed to have witnessed a gassing of Jews at Belzec, had identified the murder weapon as a diesel engine.
Holocaust historiography has it that the some 11,000 Reich Jews deported to Łódz were gassed in the "pure extermination camp" of Chełmno (Kulmhof). The swamps of Pinsk and the Rokitno marshes (near Brest-Litowsk) are both in Belarus— usually they are considered parts of a larger swampy region, the Pripet marshes. Here may be mentioned that the former German policeman Franz Osterode testified in 1965 that the commandant of the Grodno Ghetto, Heinz Errelis, had informed him, at the time of the liquidation of this ghetto (mid-February 1943), that the evacuated Grodno Jews were being sent to "special reservations" where they were to work on draining the Rokitno marshes.[1] According to mainstream historiography these Jews were gassed in Treblinka.[2] Another German witness from the Grodno Trial, the former head of the Grodno customs office, Otto Tomm, testified:
The first edition of the present work dates from March 1999. For it I was indebted to two persons who had kindly agreed to compile for publication the articles and studies which, in addition to a few revisionist books or other pieces, I had written from 1974 to 1998. This new edition reproduces the contents of the first but not without abundant corrections of detail; I owe it to Jean Plantin and, especially, to Yvonne Schleiter. The index of names has been entirely redone. In the absence of an index of subjects there is a “reading guide” prepared by Jean-Marie Boisdefeu. This second edition ought to have appeared in 2001 but we have constantly had to postpone it up to today. I had promised, in addition to the present four volumes, a book of illustrations; I regret all the more my inability to keep that promise as my general undertaking, essentially evidence-based, would have benefited from being illustrated by documents and photographs of which, moreover, I possess a great many.
First, we have the fact that nowhere in the above description do we find any hint as to what the actual killing agent was. According to the official version of events it was the exhaust fumes from a large engine mounted in a separate room in the “gas chamber” building. Considering the short distance between this building and the fence to Camp I (some 50 meters in the case of the new building) one would expect that the inmates of Camp I soon would connect the purported mass murder of the deportees with the sound from this engine. As I have pointed out in the study on Sobibór which I co-wrote with Jürgen Graf and Carlo Mattogno[3] the earliest testimonies about the alleged death chambers at that camp – which supposedly functioned in the same way as at Treblinka – mention murder methods used in these chambers which strongly imply that these witnesses did not connect the alleged gassings with the sound of an engine. Sperling’s testimony very much fits into this picture.
To the great vexation of numerous Jewish organizations, British Home Secretary Michael Howard, whose Jewish family emigrated from Rumania to Britain in 1938, vigorously blocked attempts to introduce “Holocaust-denial” laws in the United Kingdom. For his efforts, Howard received the enthusiastic support of many grass-roots British organizations.
“The next camp to be liquidated was Treblinka. The last transports to this camp, before its closing, came from the Bialystok ghetto, where over 25,000 Jews had lived until the second half of August 1943. All these Jews, according to the deportation plan, had to be sent to Treblinka in five train transports. The transports, which included seventy-six freight cars, arrived in Treblinka on August 18 and 19. The other three transports passed through Treblinka, but continued on. One went to Majdanek; one to Auschwitz; and one with children to Theresienstadt.
Basically it is quite possible to reject the "western half” of the Holocaust story ("Shoah by gas”) and to accept the "eastern half” ("Shoah by bullets”). This is precisely what a clever person wishing to save at least a part of the myth would do: While the revisionists have pointed out numerous impossibilities in the gassing story, there is nothing technically impossible about a mass shooting. But for the Jews this kind of semi-revisionism is totally unacceptable because the gas chambers are an absolutely central element of the legend. For this very reason Lindtner, who fully identifies with the Jewish version of the events and even uses Jewish newspeak (he calls revisionism "denial”!), defends not only the myth of the "millions of Jews shot in the East”, but the Auschwitz gas chamber myth as well. This is an unspeakably foolish thing to do, because together with Majdanek, Auschwitz is the most untenable part of the lie, its Achilles heel if there ever was one. In order to demonstrate the historical reality of the alleged gassings, Lindtner quotes a well-known document, the "Vergasungskeller” letter. On 29 January 1943 the chief of the Central Construction Office of Auschwitz, Karl Bischoff, stated in a letter to SS-Brigadeführer Hans Kammler:
The only thing imaginable that could forever cement this critical, moral distinction—a distinction that forever damns the perpetrators and all their descendants in time, and ennobles their innocent victims and their issue forever, would be … gas chambers.
This law was recently strengthened by a controversial bill introduced into the Knesset by MK Aryeh Eldad of the National Union Party on 20 July, 2004, which in theory enables the state of Israel to demand the extradition of any ‘Holocaust denier’ anywhere in the world to face prosecution in Israel. Critics of the law opined that the bill might never have gathered enough support to pass muster in the Knesset were it not for the unswerving support of former Israeli Justice Minister and Holocaust survivor Yosef ‘Tommy’ Lapid. Expressing his satisfaction with the bill to a journalist representing the widely read Israeli newspaper Am Haaretz, Lapid averred that denial of the Holocaust “is a clearly neo-Nazi crime. Anyone involved in this belongs to the group of criminals whom our arm must reach anywhere in the world. This is essential even if the law remains declarative. We will not hunt them, but they should know that they are on our list of criminals…What I want is that if a Holocaust denier publishes a book in England, he will be considered a criminal in Israel.” Lapid concluded the interview by expressing his joy and ‘satisfaction’ that Holocaust deniers will now be added to Israel’s list of criminals.[2]
In the early postwar period the International Military Tribunal was persuaded by the USSR to bring up Katyn as a war crime and it attempted to assign blame for it on the Germans. The Soviet perspective on trials was eminently political. In their view, defendants are already guilty because the police apparatus had decided it is so, therefore trials are mere formalities. Western jurists at Nuremberg were not much different in this respect of course, but still attempted from time to time to at least put on a show of objectivity and to listen to defendants' testimony and evidence. But in the case of Katyn the evidence was too flimsy and the defense testimony too telling.
Ball’s findings are all the more valuable since according to Davidov the cremation of the bodies at Babi Yar was completed on the same day or the day before the photo of September 26, 1943 was taken. This would have left behind clear evidence from the cremation of the bodies that would have shown on the photo. Carlo Mattogno and Jürgen Graf write:
In the end, many questions remain, but it seems possible that the Roosevelts were at least in part Jewish.[16] Perhaps the larger question is this: Does it matter? I believe it does, on two counts. First is the basic matter of historical accuracy; if we did in fact have a partially Jewish president, or rather two such presidents, the history books ought to reflect this reality. Likely other relevant evidence exists in the vast presidential archives, and an open admission might bring this to light.
Professor Arthur Butz described the political landscape in his seminal work of Holocaust revisionism: “The entire political structure of West Germany was established by the U.S. government. This includes the control of newspapers and other media, the control of the schools, and the constitution of the Bundesrepublik. As a puppet creation, this ‘German’ political establishment necessarily had an interest in the lies of the conquerors and behaved accordingly.”[34]
The Holocaust story is being used to increasingly restrict free speech. Moshe Kantor, president of the European Jewish Congress, spoke at the International Holocaust Remembrance Day at the European Parliament ceremony in Brussels on January 27, 2014. Kantor rejected free speech arguments over what he called the worldwide spread of anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism is “not an opinion—it’s a crime,” he said. Kantor apparently wants to criminalize any speech, symbols or gestures that Jews consider to be anti-Semitic.[22]
The real message of the Holocaust is one about man's inhumanity to man. It is about individuals losing their most basic lives to the machinations of government ideologies, politics and warfare. It is about lives and families being destroyed by the utopian visions of some majority who holds power. We should all denounce the uprooting of families, enforced labor, and murder by whatever means.
“based on a list of Zyklon B deliveries to German concentration camps that has been preserved, it was assumed that the Auschwitz Camp received 7,478.6 kg of gas in 1942, and 12,174.09 kg in 1943.[10] This list, however, only covers deliveries made by the Testa Company, yet does not include purchases made directly from the Dessau factory or other dealers. As has been shown above, these quantities, at least as regards 1942, are decidedly low.” (p. 72)
Early efforts to criminalize Holocaust denial were to meet with greater success on the European mainland, where sympathetic German and French legislators, reluctant to offend Jewish sensibilities, enacted restrictive legislation intended to punish individuals for expressing doubts about the Holocaust. As early as 1979, the German courts perceived Holocaust denial as a prosecutable offense, declaring,
The story of the Japanese Internment is fairly well known. Following President Franklin Roosevelt’s Executive Order 9066 of February 19, 1942, some 120,000 Japanese nationals and Japanese Americans were forced to leave their homes on the West Coast and were re-settled in various concentration camps in Wyoming, Utah, Arizona and the deep interior of California. Although Japanese and Japanese Americans were theoretically allowed to settle freely beyond the Sierra Nevada and Cascade mountain ranges, the fact is that the urgency of the implementation of EO 9066 meant that many of the deportees were forced to sell their homes, farms, and businesses in short order, and at tremendous economic loss, and were then loaded onto trains and sent to such camps as Manzanar, Heart Mountain, Tule Lake, and several others. Young Japanese who could attend college in the interior of the country were allowed to do so, young Japanese men were conscripted into the armed forces and distinguished themselves by their heroism, but, in the main, over a hundred thousand Japanese and Japanese Americans spent on the average of two to three years in the drab barracks of the internment camps, behind barbed wire.
Apparently oblivious of the brazen challenge to freedom of expression that characterized her comments, Dauebler-Gmelin stressed the absolute necessity of making an example of those who “deny the Holocaust” in the only terms they will understand: prosecution and imprisonment. According to Dauebler-Gmelin:
To the credit of the International Military Tribunal, the Katyn indictment did not appear in the final verdicts at Nuremberg. The United States Congress decided to investigate the matter in 1951 and 1952 and found that the Soviets were indeed the perpetrators. Still, the matter of the Katyn Massacre was unclear for many. Revisionist scholar F.J.P. Veale published his analysis of the crime in 1958.
This essay is based upon the studies of three well-known Jewish historians, and will focus only upon issues that most mainstream intellectuals ignore or are afraid to deal with. In 1985, Professor Michael J. Cohen published his obscure but well researched academic study, Churchill and the Jews. Churchill’s official biographer, Sir Martin Gilbert, published his more widely known Churchill and the Jews: A Lifelong Friendship in 2007, which inspired a recent Canadian movie documentary. Finally, we will be commenting upon some of the material included in Professor Jeffrey Herf’s “Holocaust classic,” The Jewish Enemy, published in 2006.[1]
“View of the hooks outside the door to the gas chambers in Buchenwald.”[35]
The hoaxers showed film of these disinfestation gas chambers for fumigating clothing, located at the end of the building. They claimed these doors, clearly marked with warning signs and skull and crossbones, were used to gas prisoners.
Initially, to Fabio Iacomini, Venezia had claimed to have been assigned to Crematorium III[121]. To Stefano Lorenzetto, by contrast, he said: "I was assigned to Krematorium 2, the largest of the four[122] functioning at Birkenau"[123]. In the book, he returns to his first version:
In their introduction to the Prisoner’s report (HB-7, HB-8) the authors point out that “the description of the facts is solely based on our memory. [...] For the sake of objectivity, we refrain from mentioning cases based on hearsay.” This type of disingenuous assertion abounds in concentration camp literature and should always be taken with a grain of salt. At least the final version of the report (HB-7) shows numerous traces of Soviet interference.
It may be easy for Bauer and Lipstadt to treat Simon Wiesenthal as a marginal figure now, but in the 1970s he was quite prominent and even respected. He was reputedly the “Nazi-hunter” who discovered the whereabouts of Adolf Eichmann (although Wiesenthal's role is disputed). He also accused Polish-American immigrant Frank Walus (falsely, as it later turned out) of being “the Butcher of Kielce,” and was represented (pseudonymously, but blatantly) as the inept hero of the 1978 Hollywood movie The Boys from Brazil. In 1980 President Jimmy Carter presented to Simon Wiesenthal a Congressional Gold Medal. And of course the Simon Wiesenthal Center is named after him. Wiesenthal may have been less cautious than Yehuda Bauer, but in the Holocaust Industry he was not a minor figure.
Arad then undermines this “evidence” by quoting the testimony of SS soldier Erich Fuchs, a German official who supposedly operated the engine that supplied the death gas to the “gas chamber,” and was subsequently put on trial for alleged war crimes committed at Sobibor. He “identified” the engine that supplied the deadly gas as a “heavy Russian benzene engine (presumably a tank or tractor motor) at least 200 horsepower (V-motor, 8 cylinder, water cooled).”[21] A diesel engine is not a benzene engine.
In conclusion, while the German euthanasia program is a well-documented reality, the Holocaust story is a fraud. Dr. Arthur Robert Butz has aptly stated:[36]
“For the first time I saw the tall chimneys with the reddish smoke billowing out from the top. They were the crematoriums. As soon as people arrived in the cattle cars, they were taken to the gas chambers. Older people that were too weak to walk or young children who had not learned to walk yet were thrown onto trucks with hydraulic lifts. The trucks would drive over to the crematorium, reverse up to it, and then use the hydraulic lift to make the people slide to a fiery death. Prisoners were given a piece of soap and told that we could take a bath if we wanted. This would have been a great treat, but of course we were afraid. We knew that this had been used to lure people into the gas chambers. On the soap were the letters ‘RJF’. The ‘R’ was for ‘Rein’, German for pure. The ‘J’ for ‘Jew’ and the ‘F’ for ‘Fett’, German for flesh.” (p. 102)
“On the other hand, there are dangers in simply passing over in silence the claims of negationists when one has already secured full copies of original documentation that refutes them. This is particularly true where the latter’s implications are, when read in context, almost the opposite of that which Irving ascribes to them – for example in relation to the ‘tampering with evidence’ claim. In my view, there is a lot to be said for Lipstadt’s response in her 1993 book Denying the Holocaust. This focuses not on debating the truth-quality of the claims, as if these were legitimate contributions to academic debate. Instead, it concentrates on uncovering the questionable pseudo-analytical methods Irving and other Holocaust deniers deploy to falsify the historical record. At least as an instructive act of immunisation, there remains merit in highlighting the methods and techniques through which such polemical works deliberately misrepresent empirical archival evidence.”
But how accurate were the "estimated" population sizes and the "approximate" number of deportees? Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial in Jerusalem claims it has the names of three million European Jews who died during WWII - including those who died from natural causes - which constitutes only half of the deaths routinely attributed to the Holocaust. What about the other half? Irving claimed that the Jewish death toll at the hands of the Nazis was between one and four million. Since the upper end of his range exceeds the numbers from Yad Vashem, why is his view considered scandalous? Furthermore, presumed dead is not the same as proven murdered, much less "exterminated" in gas chambers. There are many ways to die, especially in a war zone.
Only a few days after the liberation of the Dachau Camp, a number of U.S. Congressmen visited the camp. Here they are shown inside the gas chamber. And this is footage taken in 2016. As you can see, the ceiling of that room is rather low. In fact, the room is roughly 2.15 meters or seven feet high. Why do I mention this? Because an official U.S. commission investigated what had transpired at Dachau, and in a report to the U.S. Congress dated May 15, 1945, compiled by David Chavez, we read, among other things, that in this room “the ceiling was some 10 feet in height”[20]
According to the traditional Holocaust story, in January 1942 German leaders held a conference at Wannsee, a locality in southwestern Berlin, at which they planned the mass murder of Europe’s Jews. Eichmann wrote the minutes for this seminal meeting (p. 227).
Photo 13: Train tracks heading to gas chambers.
The brilliant revisionist author Harry Elmer Barnes defined revisionism as "nothing more or less than the effort to revise the historical record in the light of a more complete collection of historical facts, a more calm political atmosphere, and a more objective attitude."[18] While this definition was no doubt based on his experiences following World War One, the conditions in his definition remain unattained for World War Two and the Holocaust. In fact, the political atmosphere is more charged today than it was a decade after the cessation of fighting. There is clearly a less objective attitude today than there was in the 1950s. Classic revisionist books like Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace,[19] The High Cost of Vengeance,[20] and Back Door to War[21] would likely not be published today and if they were, they would be denounced rather than discussed.
Leuchter, who before this assignment had believed in the existence of the gas chambers and the German genocide of European Jewry, was the leading expert in the United States on the construction and use of execution equipment. Leuchter had designed and manufactured execution equipment of all types prior to this assignment, including electrocution systems, lethal injection equipment, gallows, and gas-chamber hardware. He had worked with most of the states in the United States that had capital punishment.[4]
He does, however, recommend criminalization of Holocaust revisionism: “I would also most strongly recommend all Western countries and others to strengthen legislation to combat the resurgence of neo-Nazism, making the denial of the Holocaust a crime in distortion of history.”[222] It’s no wonder that a liar like Pelican would not want people to be able to question statements such as “In my family alone, more than forty perished in the gas ovens of Auschwitz and Treblinka,” [223] a figure which does not include his mother, who “escaped” from Auschwitz.[224]
While there is an enormous presence of cyanide residue in the masonry of the disinfestation chambers, in the alleged homicidal gas chambers there is no significant presence at all… The simplest explanation for this is that there were no gassings with Zyklon B in the alleged homicidal gas chambers, plain and simple.[2]
Could it be that the nearby labor camp Treblinka I, notorious among Warsaw citizens as a penal camp, was mistaken for an extermination camp because of transports of Jews there? Jewish Holocaust historian David Silberklang provides the following history of this camp:[9]
The absurdity of this situation is hard to overestimate. The decision to build Treblinka was likely made in March or April (construction began in May), and the decision to double the number of Belzec chambers came soon thereafter;[8] six chambers were in operation there by June 1942. And barely a month later, perhaps by July, the Nazi team opted to double the chambers at Sobibor and, at the same time, to go to six (or perhaps 10, depending on witnesses) double-size chambers at Treblinka—which had just begun operation.
”In the camp there were Soviet prisoners of war as well. They arrived at Sachsenhausen in large groups and for a special purpose – liquidation. This category of prisoners was not statistically registered. The Russian POWs were kept in special barracks behind barbed wire which isolated them from the other inmates. They did not even get the pitiful rations other prisoners were allotted.”[39]
To arrive at the conclusion that homicidal gas chambers existed, the judge accepted the legitimacy of a David Ray Griffin-style "cumulative proof," which dispensed with the need to find or cite direct evidence - a great convenience. Thus, the defense did not have to suffer the embarrassment of being unable to produce photographs of the homicidal gas chambers or their physical remains, nor contemporary German documents discussing the myriad complexities involved in (allegedly) systematically exterminating millions of people with an industrial assembly line of death.
I'm very far from being a scholar and I find the literature to be a real yawner. At the beginning of course it was awfully shocking to discover that it has not been demonstrated that the gas chamber stories are true. What I couldn't get out of my mind however was not the apparent fact that there had been no program for the mass gassing of Jews, thank God for that as they say, but how urgently intellectuals argue against intellectual freedom on this one issue.
In fact the only time things deviated from this surprisingly low-level gassing scheme was during two fateful months in mid-1944: the “Hungarian Operation.” From mid-May to mid-July 1944, we are told that the Germans shipped some 400,000 Hungarian Jews to Auschwitz to be immediately gassed.[64] If we add this to the on-going quantity of non-Hungarian Jews, we see that, during this eight-week period, the Germans allegedly killed about 450,000 Jews. During just these eight weeks, 45% of the entire Auschwitz death toll occurred. The remaining 55% of the killings were spread out over the other 128 weeks—a striking notion, to be sure.
Professor Cohen notes the strange inconsistency between Winston Churchill’s public statements about the Holocaust and his lack of action to do anything to stop it: “But against the frequent expression of his horror at Nazi crimes, one must record the almost total absence of any meaningful gesture or action by him to save Hitler’s Jewish victims—either when in Opposition, or in the position of supreme power, which was his from 1940 to 1945.”[66]
“And so it goes with Drabek, Entress, Feigl, with Trauner, Niedermeyer, Haeger, Miessner, Riegler, Zoller, with Blei, with Eckert, with Striegel, with Eigruber, with Eisenhoefer, with Mack and Riegler. Let the court also note the unbelievable accusations that the affiants make against themselves. It is contrary to normal human conduct. People just don’t talk that way about themselves. Beyond any doubt, threats and duress were used to induce the signing of the untruthful statements in evidence.”
[20] Carlo Mattogno, Curated Lies: Auschwitz Museum’s Misrepresentations, Distortions and Deceptions, Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield 2016, pp. 30-32. Similar in my book The Chemistry of Auschwitz, Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield 2017, p. 104.
Finally we are left again with this question: How many Jews died in Auschwitz, on the revisionist view? Robert Faurisson has suggested a figure of 150,000. Mattogno and Graf argue for a lesser number, 136,000. Let us take 140,000 as a median revisionist estimate. Once again, this is much more in line with the actual evidence uncovered to date.
In these matters there also intervened the Inspectorate of Concentration Camps, in search of manpower for the “Generalplan Ost”.
One of the topics dealt with in this paragraph is the reception of the new arrivals at Sachsenhausen whom the SS-Lagerführer always greeted with a speech.[32] HB-2 contains two sentences referring to the Russians who had succumbed to typhus. We quote from Bischoff’s English translation:
Air raid shelter door at Auschwitz
“The people were driven down Sadovnikova Street and Ludzas Street and then out of the ghetto along Maskavas Street, kilometer after kilometer upstream [the Daugava River], until they finally reached their destination, which was named Rumbula [...]. Rumbula, which until that day had been only a tiny railroad station, a point on the map, became during those days a meaningful name in the history of the extermination of the Jews, just as the forest of Bikernieki had been previously and the Kaiserwald concentration camp was to be subsequently. Here mass graves had been dug in the forest, which was surrounded by soldiers. Anyone who had reached this place alive suddenly realized in a flash what awaited him or her. In the bitter frost, everyone had to undress, lay their clothes in separate piles, and wait for the bullet that was destined for them, while in the meantime new columns were arriving constantly and the buses driving back and forth brought in new victims. According to the eyewitness A. Baranovskis, the Rumbula station chief, the action began at 8:15 A.M. on November 30 and ended at 7:45 P.M. the same day. On that day more than 15,000 people were slaughtered by the Gestapo and the Latvian police. [...]
The defendant had been charged and convicted of offering thirty books for sale that presented Adolf Hitler in a favorable light, defended the policies of the Third Reich, and presented revisionist arguments with respect to the “Holocaust.”
[18] Ball, John C., Air Photo Evidence, Delta, British Columbia: Ball Resources Services Limited, 1992, p. 108.
“Some children are killed on the spot, others are separated from their parents and either sent to Germany to be brought up as Germans or sold to German settlers or despatched with the women and old men to concentration camps, where they are now being systematically put to death in gas chambers.
One suspects that the ultimate objective of such laws is to dispense with the farce of a public trial and simply sentence the accused in a sub-rosa star chamber comprised of a camarilla whose members are specifically appointed to impose the proper draconian sentence upon the accused without any attendant publicity. No other qualifications are necessary and there is no point in pleading or argumentation, as proof of guilt is already established by virtue of being denounced and accused.
In March 1940 I carried out a gassing in AUSCHWITZ. This was just before it was due to become a concentration camp. At this time AUSCHWITZ consisted of seven to eight one-storeyed [einstöckigen] stone houses and we used about 120 kilograms of ZYKLON gas to gas it.[98]
“At this concentration camp in the Gotha area, the Germans starved, clubbed, and burned to death more than 4000 political prisoners over a period of eight months. […] The 4000 Ohrdruf victims are said to include Poles, Czechs, Russians, Belgians, Frenchmen, German Jews, and German political prisoners.”
The days of the “6 million” are numbered, and I suspect that Goldman, Goldstein, and friends know it. When that crumbles, so too collapses what little remains of Jewish credibility. When the orthodox Holocaust story goes down, the dominoes may well begin to fall. And when that happens, all bets are off.
Forensic tests show that all of the delousing facilities at Auschwitz, Birkenau, Stutthof and Majdanek have one thing in common: their walls are permeated with Prussian Blue, a compound of cyanide and iron readily discernible by a distinctive deep blue color. Not only the inner surfaces, but also the outside walls and the mortar between the bricks of the delousing facilities have Prussian Blue staining. On the other hand, nothing of this sort can be observed in any of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz/Birkenau.[1]
[ii] Brandon, Ray and Lower, Wendy, The Shoah in Ukraine: History, Testimony, Memorialization: Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press, 2008, p. 292.
Mengele’s only son, Rolf, secretly traveled to Brazil in 1977 to talk to his father about what had happened at Auschwitz during the war. Night after night Rolf asked his father about his time in Auschwitz. When Mengele had finally completed his statements, Rolf asked his father why, if he felt so sure of his innocence, he had not turned himself in? Rolf said his father replied, “There are no judges, only avengers.”[36]
In the summer of 1942 a railway station was built by a one-way track near the collection point in the part of the camp closest to the [Minsk-Mogilev] road (the railway line had previously ended at Michanowice). The trains with Jews from the Reich, which had previously stopped at the Minsk freight yard, were now immediately redirected from there to Trostenez. Twice a week trains arrived from the Reich, from Poland, Czechoslovakia, Austria, France. They arrived on Tuesdays and Fridays and – in order to avoid commotion – always in the early morning between four and five o'clock. Also from the Dachau Concentration Camp a train arrived in June 1942.
“I can still see the scratches of fingernails on the walls of the gas chambers where people tried to claw up the walls to escape the gas.”
“The SS-Lagerarzt [camp physician], orders a quarantine for the Gypsy camp in Birkenau, during which time 507 Gypsies with numbers Z-7666–Z-8178, and 528 female Gypsies with numbers Z-8331–Z-8864, were taken to the gas chambers. Among them were a few typhus patients, and several hundred persons suspected of typhus […]. The inmate employed in the Schreibstube [record keeping office] of the hospital in the Gypsy camp was ordered to record the death certificates of the gassed Gypsies as “death from natural causes”, indicating a dozen deaths per day for consistency’s sake.”[32]
With the Holocaust, as with any such issue, it is wise to always keep the big picture in mind. So, let us ask some ‘big picture’ questions—questions that might get to the inherent plausibility of the conventional story.
It is important for the Defenders of the Holocaust Faith to maintain an appearance that the Holocaust story never changes much, because a significant change in the story creates doubts among the faithful. If that was false, then what else was false? It is therefore helpful, when some element of the Holocaust must be discarded, to pretend that everybody who matters always regarded that particular element as apocryphal anyway. That is what Bauer accomplishes by pinning the claim that there were millions of non-Jewish Holocaust victims on Simon Wiesenthal (who, during his own lifetime, was always regarded as something of a bungler, as portrayed in The Boys from Brazil).
The book Unsung Heroes of the Dachau Trials deals with the 7708 War Crimes Group of the U.S. Army. The young Americans in this group were responsible for gathering evidence, interviewing witnesses, apprehending suspects and securing convictions in trials held at Dachau conducted by the U.S. Army. Since remarkably little is known about the 7708 War Crimes Group, John J. Dunphy decided to write this book to educate the public about their activities. Dunphy states that he also wanted to preserve the testimony of the War Crimes Group members who agreed to be interviewed.[1]
[1] Mayer, Arno, Why Did the Heavens Not Darken? The ‘Final Solution’ in History, New York: Pantheon Books, 1988, p. 270.
The great nation of France, the land of “liberty, equality and brotherhood” was the second western European nation to enact laws designed to punish Holocaust denial. In May 1986 Jewish organizations, acting in concert with the nation’s chief rabbi, Rene-Samuel Sirat, called for enactment of a law to punish Holocaust deniers and assorted agnostics. Under the tutelage of Rabbi Sirat, a number of Jewish academics, among them the prominent anti-revisionist author, Pierre Vidal-Naquet, Holocaust activists Serge and Beate Klarsfeld, and Georges Wellers, a former Auschwitz inmate and editor of Le Monde Juif, vociferously clamored for a bill in imitation of Israel’s anti-denial law.[16]
[12] Rudolf, Germar, The Rudolf Report: Expert Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz, Washington, D.C.: The Barnes Review, 2011, pp. 111-112.
As Dr. Fanghänel conclusively showed in his meticulous analysis, there is not the faintest evidence that a “Militärpolizeilicher Dienst” ever existed. As such an organization would inevitably have left ample traces in the archives; this alone is sufficient to demolish the credibility of the “Lachout Document” which was in all probability fabricated by Emil Lachout himself, a man whom Prof. Robert Faurisson had always suspected of being an imposter and who gave all kinds of contradictory explanations as to how he had obtained it. Of course this does not mean that the claim made in this “document” is wrong; as a matter of fact, no homicidal gas chambers existed at any of the aforementioned camps. But we revisionists cannot afford to base our claims on forgeries. We do not depend on them.
I will here discuss some sweeping claims Lipstadt makes in her book about Holocaust revisionists and their research in general. Such sweeping claims have to be wrong from the outset, because there is no way every revisionist and every revisionist research finding of the past, present and future can possibly fit her bill. Looking at the limited scope of her book, which explores only a subset of revisionists and their research, any sweeping claims are also disingenuous, because if it is unjust and prejudiced, for instance, to conclude from the fact that some Jews are evil that all Jews are evil (or otherwise lacking), the same is true for revisionists. So even if all the revisionists she investigated and all of their works deserved her judgment, she could not possibly extrapolate from this that all the individuals and all the research she ignored or wasn’t even aware of fall into the same categories, though she obviously is eager to convey the impression of total coverage on her part.
Kahn proclaims “when the Germans or French (Kahn omits all mention of Israel) decide to ban Holocaust denial, they do so in the context of a history of restricting speech that insults groups. This tradition stretches back to the early 20th century when it was illegal to insult the military, judges and large property owners.”
The hospital staff at Buchenwald was composed “almost 100 percent” of German Communists. The camp elder and his deputy were Communists. Most of the drugs and food went to Communist Party patients. The Labour Office, Food Supply and Property Room were also under Communist control. Communists controlled the distribution of Red Cross food parcels. When the U.S. Army entered the camp they found the 300 remaining German Communists “dressed like prosperous businessmen.” 62 An unseen directorate of the Communist Party gave instructions to the Communist Buchenwald trustees. These directives were received from the Communist Party which retained an underground network throughout Germany. A courier travelled out of Buchenwald to receive party directives. It was discovered in September 1944 that the Buchenwald Communists were part of a plot to overthrow Hitler.63 If Thälmann was executed several weeks previously, perhaps the time frame is sufficient to consider that he was found to be one of the plot leaders.
“There was no evidence here or anywhere else, indeed, that the British Political Warfare Executive had invented the story of the gas chambers: they had on the contrary received a report from people with contacts in Central Europe about them. Nor was there any evidence that the Foreign Ofﬁce considered reports of gassings to be a lie; they were simply unsure about them. Moreover, their real doubts related to claims that Poles were being gassed. Even Cavendish-Bentinck agreed that the Germans were ‘out to destroy the Jews of any age unless they are ﬁt for manual labour.’”
By the 1960s, talk of mass killings in a “Dachau gas chamber” subsided significantly. Raul Hilberg’s magnum opus, Destruction of the European Jews, contains virtually no mention of such a gas chamber—either in his first (1961) edition or in his massive, 3-volume 2003 edition. Paul Berben’s Dachau 1933-1945: The Official History states flatly that “the Dachau gas-chamber was never operated” (1975: 8).[10] Laqueur (2001: 240) briefly discusses the Blaha testimony and his claim that “several executions were carried out in the Dachau gas chamber.” Laqueur concludes that, because of the “mantle of secrecy” that surrounded Barrack X (the crematorium) and the fact that we have “only one unequivocal testimony”—that of Blaha—that therefore “it is difficult to corroborate Blaha’s statements and say with certainty whether the Dachau gas chamber was ever used for its designed purpose.”
But also at this juncture, there is growing reason to question not just what we (and you-know-who) are all really like, but as well, Milgram’s grotesque misapprehension of just what the National Socialists really did to their “victims,” and why, and even how. In keeping with the dominant mythology, Milgram envisioned that, at the very least, the implementers of the Final Solution were soulless zombies whose very constitutions prevented them from having the faintest glimmer of empathy for their prey.
“Altogether, about 16,000 Soviet prisoners of war were deported to the Sachsenhausen camp by the Hitlerites in September/October 1941; up to 14,000 of them were shot. The Germans treated the remaining 2,000 Soviet prisoners of war with particular cruelty. They were used for the hardest work; in their barracks there were neither beds nor blankets, not even straw. The Soviet prisoners of war received only half of the meager rations other prisoners were allotted.“
Notwithstanding the absurd lies he told, this person is nonetheless held in high esteem by orthodox historians, but, in a sort of veiled schizophrenia, only as regards his accusations against Dr. Mengele. And in fact, his testimony constitutes the “demonstrative” framework for the accusations of every book on the subject, starting with Gerald L. Posner and John Ware on Dr. Mengele,[22] one of the most important, also mentioned by H. Kubica. The two authors cite him on pages 19, 20, 26, 33, 34, 38, 39, 40, 41, 53 and 152. In fact, the entire chapter on the “crimes” of Dr. Mengele at Auschwitz is built upon Nyiszli’s “testimony”! Even Robert Jay Lifton mentions him repeatedly.[23] H. Kubica cites him just as often. She even reproduces his photograph[24] and cites him several times.[25]
Very well. So how did this evolve into the Holocaust as we know it? For answers, we turn to Chapter Six on the Final Solution (p. 450) where Cesarani begins with a discussion of the Wannsee Conference:
Majdanek crematorium. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled GNU Free Documentation License.. This file is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported license.Source: http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Majdanek_-_crematorium.jpg
Simply and plainly stated, this means that the belief in the six million figure and the concept of the ‘holocaust’ were not formulated, as most people believe, from analysis of events in the Nazi sphere of influence during World War Two, but evolved from Zionist propaganda dating back for half a century. What makes this awkward for historians, is that the logical follow-through from this analysis would then be to doubt the information provided by the Zionists about Nazi Germany. After all, they had been making similarly alarmist claims, without foundation, for many years. This is dangerous territory for history, or at least, establishment history, as it would cast a shadow over several of the major pillars of the Holocaust narrative, whose origin was from the Jewish organizations. Yet rather than confront these inconvenient facts, draw conclusions from them and attempt to place them within the wider context of the issue being discussed, Historians prefer simply not to mention them. If they did, they might upset some influential people. Unfortunately this suggests that Historians, on the most part, are cowards.
As Wiesenthal delivered his speech to a friendly audience, it is improbable that he was bothered with probing questions about the origin of the picture. The picture reminds the drawing of an architect or an engineer, and “Engineer Wiesenthal” (as he liked to call himself, in line with Austrian tradition) had earlier drawn pictures of atrocities allegedly perpetrated in German concentration camps[5]. It is therefore legitimate to suspect that this picture was fabricated by Wiesenthal himself. To the best of our knowledge, he never claimed having personally seen such a vehicle. Probably it was Wiesenthal who provided Der Spiegel with a copy of this picture in 1963. As we already mentioned, the German news magazine published it no fewer than five times, always insinuating that this was an authentic photograph of a vehicle in which human beings were killed with poison gas.
Third Reich “scholarship” is measured against a de facto axiom that it must be centered around the Holocaust, with concomitant discussions on medical experiments, and other aspects of a supposedly uniquely “Nazi” brutality. Anything less is branded by watchdog “scholars” such as Deborah Lipstadt as “relativizing the Holocaust,” which is apparently even worse than “Holocaust revisionism.”[1]
The affidavit was read out in court on December 14, 1945 by the American assistant trial counsel William Walsh, who committed the dishonesty of translating the suspect word Vernichtungslagern by the classic phrase “concentration camps.” A German lawyer spoke up, requesting the appearance of Höttl. He would never obtain it. And the height of it all was reached when, in the final ruling, the Tribunal presumed to conclude, on September 30, 1946: “Adolf Eichmann, who had been put in charge of this program by Hitler, has estimated that the policy pursued resulted in the killing of six million Jews, of which four million were killed in the extermination institutions” (IMT, I, p. 252-253). The truth is that never had Hitler put Eichmann or anyone else in charge of such a program, and that the estimate was not that of Eichmann but, instead, had been attributed to him by W. Höttl. After the war Höttl continued to work with the Allies in the fear of being handed over to a Hungary governed by communists who would not have failed to execute him.
It’s a safe bet that the oppressed existentialists at Vichy found time for a drink, or even a laugh. There was a theater at Auschwitz, and a swimming pool. Surely there was music as well, until there wasn’t. Life is made of fragments. Time is everything. In the space of time, shoelaces can break, and treaties can be signed. In time, possibilities can be tested against an invitation to apocalypse. To understand this is to see what Churchill – and what Marcus Aurelius – could never see.
First, in that manuscript the Germans force the victims into the chamber with whips whereas here they use deception. And second, in A we read about “openings” while here there is only one “hole”.
“At the camp there were also Soviet prisoners of war. They arrived in large groups at the Sachsenhausen camp for a special purpose – liquidation. No statistics were kept about this category of prisoners. The Russian prisoners of war were kept behind barbed wire in special barracks and isolated from the other inmates. They did not even get the scanty rations allotted to the other prisoners.”
Sobibor survivor Stanislaw Szmajzner’s map of Sobibor supports Tenenbaum’s falsehood. On his map, a building is drawn in where the crematorium was allegedly housed.[59] Israeli historian Arad’s map points out that there were no crematoria housed in a building. Szmajner’s claim of a crematorium housed in building is just another falsehood to add to the long list of other Sobibor falsehoods.[60]
Turning to the previous paragraph of the 2011 UN document, it places a limit upon the application of blasphemy laws – “Prohibitions of displays of lack of respect for a religion or other belief system.” Over the decades of its sorry existence, European legislation against Holocaust revisionism has only ever protected the allegedly hurt feelings of one specific ethnic or religious group, viz. Jews. This paragraph makes clear that
‘The German authorities acting under the authority of Governor General Hans Frank established in March 1942 the extermination camp at Treblinka, intended for mass killing of Jews by suffocating them in steam-filled chambers…The best known of these death camps are those of Treblinka, Belzec and Sobibor in the Lublin district. In these camps the Jews were put to death in their thousands by hitherto unknown, new methods, gas and steam chambers as well as electrical current employed on a large scale…[27]
When I found out that something was wrong with the gas chamber stories I was fifty years old. By the time you're fifty you've been around the block a few times. You've come to believe you're finished with fear, for example, yet here it was again. In a certain way, it was the fear that held my attention. I quickly lost interest in "survivor" yarns about gassing and torture and how good and innocent Jews are compared with Christians and everybody else.
“And all of the sudden, it was April 3rd at 3 o’clock, alarm, and American air force over us, and dropped the bombs just on our camp. And the whole camp was entirely destroyed. And out of this four thousand people, we were 200 survived. Because they died there. They were in the camps, you know. Hanging in the ceiling, their bodies and… It was awful. It was burning days and days. We were still…, the nurses, the doctors, the administration people, the working administration… we ran away. And the Americans made a mistake because they didn’t know this is a concentration camp. They knew it is a military camp. They emptied the military the month before and in January they put us in, you see. So, they didn’t know. So, they came back at 9 o’clock in the morning and hit the whole city. The whole city they flattened. We ran away in the wood, in the fields, and when they emptied the planes, they came and strafed us with machine guns. They didn’t know who it is. They are Germans, you know. And we went into the woods, and we remained about a week in the woods. And we ate only the raw potatoes.”
Jewish law, halakhah, states that in no case may the bodies be moved, particularly, with reference to the victims of the Shoah. Orthodox Jewish tradition establishes that the remains of the victims of the Shoah rest in the fullness of God, and that any moving of their remains disturbs their rest. Thus, the archaeologist was only permitted to work on the surface of the bodies, taking care not to move the bones (p. 225).
When Wiesel and virtually every American politician visit the most famous Holocaust institution at Yad Vashem, they look over the valley to the north and ignore the fact that they are looking directly at Deir Yassin. Mouthing the words ‘Never forget!’ and ‘Hope lives when people remember’, they hypocritically ignore the single most memorable tragedy in 20th century Palestinian history. That Jews shot innocent Palestinian men, women, and children, mutilated their bodies, threw them into cisterns, heaped others in piles and burned them over several days following the massacre is horrible enough. To build a Holocaust memorial within sight of this crime while totally denying it is not just inconvenient; it is unconscionable. To continue to show indifference towards Deir Yassin, while standing in front of it, is hateful.
“The Holocaust was the systematic, state-sponsored murder of six million Jews by Nazi Germany and its collaborators.” (USHMM, 30 January 2017)
A considerable portion of the expellees from Poland had eaten no food for up to a week. The women bore marks of systematic maltreatment over a long period, with the scars of physical and sexual abuse much in evidence. A British medical officer who examined the German expellees determined that “most of the women had been violated, among them a girl of 10 and another of 16.”[14]
Israelis are obsessed with the history and heritage of the Holocaust. A 1992 study of Israeli college students found that close to 80% of those asked identified with the statement, “We are all Holocaust survivors.” The so-called Holocaust has become a way for secular Jews to feel connected to their Jewish heritage.[32]
[7] Rudolf, Germar, The Rudolf Report: Export Report on Chemical and Technical Aspects of the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz, 2nd edition, Washington, D.C.: The Barnes Review, 2011, p. 220.
Dr. Karl Brandt and the other defendants were infuriated during the Doctors’ Trial at the moral high ground taken by the U.S. prosecution. Evidence showed that the Allies had been engaged in illegal medical experimentation, including poison experiments on condemned prisoners in other countries, and cholera and plague experiments on children.[27]
It may be, because of the testimony submitted here, that this court may be inclined to determine the guilt or innocence of these forty men by the number of men they killed, or by the number of men they beat, or the number they tortured. That is not the test that is to be applied in this case... We are not trying these men for specific acts of misconduct. We are trying these men for participation in this common design... as a matter of fact, this case could have been established without showing that a single man over in that dock at any time killed a man. It would be sufficient, may it please the court, to show that there was in fact a common design, and that these individuals participated in it, and that the purpose of this common design was the killings, the beatings, and the tortures and the subjection to starvation... The evidence before this court demonstrates beyond all peradventure of a doubt the existence of this common design. It is not contended, nor is it necessary to sustain, the charges that this common design had its origin in Dachau, nor was it first conceived in January 1942. ...
In 1999 I partnered with Bradley Smith to launch a new revisionist journal, entitled The Revisionist. The Revisionist went through several incarnations through the years. Ultimately it became the prototype for Inconvenient History, which was launched ten years later in 2009. This short opinion piece ran in that first issue of The Revisionist. Here Bradley Smith argued for the subject that was his focus for the second half of his life – intellectual freedom with regard to the Holocaust. Bradley Smith passed away on 18 February 2016. This article is reprinted his memory. A slightly different version of this article also ran in the 6 June 94 issue of The Statesman at State University of New York at Stony Brook— Ed.
But is it really morally wrong for a Christian to reject the traditional Holocaust story?
Regarding the transport of Łódż Jews to Auschwitz in August 1944, we have some hints regarding the final destination of these deportees.[136] On 7 August 1944 Amtsleiter Hans Biebow addressed the workers in the tailors’ workshops, in which he stated:
Barnes argued that revisionist theories were smothered by a campaign of unceasing inflammatory exaggerations of Nazi savagery. In light of the incessant tales of the murder of six million Jews and the use of terrible weapons of mass destruction including gas chambers that killed by the thousands in a matter of minutes, some might even say seconds, the details of backroom politics and diplomatic failures were hardly the things that would fire the public’s imagination. Barnes wrote, "To expect the public to listen to sober revisionist scholarship in the face of the current avalanche of violent vituperation against prewar and wartime Germany is like imagining a housewife whose home is on fire and the flames threatening her small children, being eager or even willing to open her door to a Fuller Brush salesman and listen intently to his sales talk."
Hence, even if one were to succeed in determining exactly how much of the camp’s underlying soil has been disturbed, how is one to tell which of these perturbations originate from the purported perpetrators and which have been added by the above-mentioned activities that unfolded after the camp had been dissolved? While it is perhaps possible to find out where and how much of a volume the Soviet and Polish investigative commissions dug up, and to what degree it included the volume of former mass graves and cremation sites, etc., it is probably rather difficult, if at all possible, to distinguish bomb craters and haphazard digs from original mass graves and cremation sites. But such a distinction is indispensable in order to be sure which soil perturbation is original and which is later. Admittedly, this prerequisite is a very high standard of proof which may be extremely difficult or even impossible to meet. But that failure of securing the evidence while it was fresh is merely the fault of the authorities in charge of the area right after the withdrawal of all German authorities in 1944. Worse still, if the camp’s area was indeed bombarded by the Soviet Air Force, this raises the suspicion that the Soviets themselves were those who initiated the process of destroying the evidence. It is moot to speculate about their motives, but it is safe to say that securing evidence in a mass-murder case was obviously not on their minds. At any rate, not having conducted a thorough forensic investigation for so many decades has led to a considerable deterioration and spoliation of the evidence which we may never be able to overcome.
Rumours are therefore the most covert of all forms of propaganda. Although the enemy may suspect that a certain rumour has been started by the British Government, they can never prove it. Even if they succeed in capturing an agent engaged in spreading whispers, there will be no written evidence against him, and should they extort a confession from him, nothing is easier than for the British Government to deny the whole story.
The new, larger gas chamber building is described as follows:
[26] Stäglich, Wilhelm, Auschwitz: A Judge Looks at the Evidence, Institute for Historical Review, 1990, p. 293.
It suffices to read Jens Hoffmann’s book about the "Aktion 1005”[15] to realize that the whole tale is exclusively based on "eyewitness evidence”, "confessions” and post-war trials where such "eyewitness evidence” and "confessions” formed the sole basis of the accusation.
In all probability the two muffles of the small stationary crematorium which existed as early as in 1940 were only capable of incinerating the bodies of prisoners who had died from so-called ”natural causes“. The construction of the new crematorium with its four muffles was only completed in May 1942.
To take another example of deception by photography, everyone may well have felt revulsion upon seeing the neatly aligned corpses in the Nordhausen camp, but it was to be learned after some time that those dead were in fact victims of an Allied bombing raid targeting mainly the military barracks called Bölke Kaserne. Meanwhile, at Dachau, Buchenwald and elsewhere identical sights lent credence to the legend that those camps, conceived and run as “death camps,” had been equipped with homicidal “gas chambers” regularly achieving an extravagant daily turnover. Upon verification, the official historians had admitted, under the pressure exerted by revisionist authors and especially by Paul Rassinier, author of The Holocaust Story and the Lies of Ulysses, that despite the many “testimonies” of priests, professors and doctors, the alleged “gassings” of detainees there had never taken place (Martin Broszat, of the Institut für Zeitgeschichte in Munich, “Keine Vergasung in Dachau [Bergen-Belsen, Buchenwald]”, Die Zeit, August 19, 1960, p. 16).
In 1990 the German journalist Paul Kohl published a book on the Belarus holocaust titled Ich wundere mich, daß ich noch lebe (I'm Amazed That I'm Still Alive) which was republished in 1995 under the new title Der Krieg der deutschen Wehrmacht und der Polizei 1941-1944 (The War of the German Army and Police 1941-1944). This book is partly a collection of testimonies, partly a travel journal which describes Kohl's own visits to various museums and (alleged) mass killing sites, among them Maly Trostenets:
“It’s a statement that shows up regularly in declarations about the Nazi era. […] It is, however, a number without any scholarly basis. […] The ‘5 million’ [non-Jewish Holocaust victims] has driven Holocaust historians to distraction ever since Wiesenthal started to peddle it in the 1970s. […]
"…This and related trials are not driven by justice but by hatred and revenge….. The events took place half a century ago. The nature of evidence available is dubious. That is why the great majority of names on the lobby’s original lists have, on legal advice, been dropped by the Government….. The accused committed no crimes in Australia during their years here….. The accused committed no crimes against Australians anywhere….. The spirit of hatred and revenge unleashed by the trials can poison and destabilise nations as well as persons."[11]
[26] Mayer, Arno J., Why Did the Heavens Not Darken?: The “Final Solution” in History, New York: Pantheon Books, 1988, p. 365.
The problem is that everyone consulting this document – from mainstream Holocaust historians to David Irving – assumes that all of these people were killed by December, 1942. Yet this is simply impossible. First, because the ghettoes in the Russian East continued to grow and function even after this time, and so did the various forced labor industries that the Germans used to employ these Jewish deportees, including Organization Todt, which among other projects was involved in precisely the road-building in the Soviet Union that was specified in the minutes of the Wannsee Conference.
Overlooking the fact that the tiny openings in Crematorium IV were barred, thus preventing any introduction of Zyklon B,[2] Hart’s account cannot be true because, according to her story, all the work – gassing, ventilating, corpse removal, cremation, clearing, dumping – was completed in only a few minutes.
It goes without saying that for the Soviet propaganda the real death toll of the camp was not terrible enough. As early as in 1945, it was brazenly claimed that no fewer than 100,000 prisoners had perished at Sachsenhausen. This propagandistic assertion is confirmed by a report of the former Lt. Colonel of the German parachute troops, Gerhart Schirmer, who was interned in the Soviet special camp No. 7 (Sachsenhausen) from September 1945 until January 1950. By order of the Soviet operatives, Schirmer and another seven German prisoners were forced to build a ”gas chamber“ and a ”neck-shooting facility“ which were later shown to Soviet groups of visitors as evidence for German atrocities. The detainee Fritz Dörbeck, who spoke Russian, was compelled to ”explain“ everything to the visitors and to state that ”the Nazis gassed about 100,000 people in this room and shot hundreds in the neck-shooting facility.”[76]
Dr. Arthur Butz concludes that “there are excellent grounds, based on the public record, for believing that Kempner abused the power he had at the military tribunals, and produced ‘evidence’ by improper methods involving threats and various forms of coercion.”[15]
”The mass annihilation was carried out by hanging, shooting and gassing. As a rule, the shootings occurred in a special ditch in the area of the camp crematorium.“
Starting in 1959, several investigations were initiated against former members of the Reichssicherheitshauptamt (Dr. Becker, Pradel, Schmidt, Dr. Widmann etc.) who were accused of having taken part in the euthanasia action or in the development of the alleged gas vans. As a general rule, the statements of defendants and witnesses in a pending case are not made accessible to the public. However, at least in the case of Mogilev there is ample reason to suspect that the preliminary results of the investigation were passed on to Israeli historians as early as 1960. Both sides communicated on friendly terms (“Lieber Shmuel”[Krakowski]).
Alan Dershowitz concurs, calling the Zündel trials “a total victory for Holocaust deniers and a total disaster for Holocaust survivors and the Jewish people.”[24]
Between April and August the Buchenwald Trial is conducted by the U.S. Military Court at Dachau. On August 20, the verdict of the so-called Doctors’ Trial is announced in Nuremberg. The Auschwitz trial in Kraków, Poland, where former camp commandant Rudolf Höss is sentenced to death, is held between November 24 and December 22. The first edition of Anne Frank’s diary, Het Achterhuis, is published in The Netherlands.
Both Kaltenbrunner and Pohl were top officials of the concentration camp system. No trace of that Himmler order has ever been found, but that’s beside the point I want to make here. When we look at what was really going on in those camps, we are in for a surprise. Here is a chart showing the number of inmate deaths at Dachau as recorded first by the German authorities and then by the Americans. It clearly shows that mortality exploded at a time when Hitler’s extermination policy is said to have been abandoned. The same happened at the Bergen-Belsen Camp, where mortality exploded only in early 1945, as can be seen from this chart exhibited today at the Bergen-Belsen museum.
The four Birkenau crematoria, however, are the notorious centerpiece of the Auschwitz story. During their first year of operation (1943), they allegedly killed 125,000 Jews. This is an average of 12,500 per month, or 416 per day—spread over four crematoria. Each crematorium, therefore, gassed, on average, about 100 people per day. This sounds bad, but it is nothing compared with orthodox claims of gas chambers that killed “2,000 people at a time.”[63] But to reach that figure, the Germans would have had to build up a 20-day backlog of Jews, and then gas them all at once. In that case, there would only have been a single gassing per month, at each crematorium. Hardly the high-speed assembly line of death that has been portrayed.
Finally there is a huge question mark around the piping and ductwork that runs above and behind the room. Various drawings and studies over the years indicate numerous changes, alterations, additions, and reconstructions—to the point where the present system is nonsensical. A properly-designed chamber would be clear and simple: a single air duct connected at opposite ends of the room (to recirculate the poison gas), an in-line air heater (to improve gasification), a remote (attic or backroom) Zyklon introduction device, and a simple pair of inlet/outlet chimneys for cleansing the chamber of the deadly gas. Instead we find, by all indications, an absurd, jury-rigged system of pipes, valves, and condensers, one that bears all the marks of a series of postwar constructions. In all likelihood the room was designed and built as an actual shower, which was then reconstructed, with the lower ceiling, to meet American expectations of what a ‘gas chamber’ should look like.
Although the civil-rights aspects of this case are of interest, they will be ignored here as well, for they could and should be the object of a separate paper focusing on civil rights in Italy. We will here focus entirely on one of the main charges Dr. Viola faced during his criminal proceedings: that of “spreading negationist ideology,” i.e., Holocaust revisionism, which, as Dr. Viola correctly observed, “it is not an ideology, but a rigorous research method of historiography.” His offense? He invented imaginary Jews gassed in the Polish death camps by entering made-up data into the Yad Vashem database, thus exposing that there is no quality control and that anyone can enter anything, turning the whole enterprise into a big joke. Of course, making a joke about the Shoah victims is socially unacceptable at best, and considered a crime in many countries.
Here it should be emphasized that at no point in Human Smoke nor in supplementary interviews and commentaries does Nicholson Baker evince the slightest trace of doubt or qualified skepticism concerning any part of the standard Holocaust narrative. Yes, a few critics have attempted to cast suspicion, sometimes with coy reference to Baker’s allegedly credulous treatment of Himmler’s doomed Madagascar Plan, or with the hanging intimation that there is something “curious” behind his unexpected project. But such is the noise that comes. With a few taut references to Wannsee, intoned with requisite foreboding, Baker’s good faith is affirmed.
[18] Pasternak, Alfred, Inhuman Research: Medical Experiments in German Concentration Camps, Budapest, Hungary: Akadémiai Kiadó, 2006, p. 149.
The “protocol” issued by the Polish investigating judge Jan Sehn on July 24, 1945, which was later presented at the Höss trial,[7] recaps all the internal orders related to the crematoria in Birkenau made by various Auschwitz offices to the inmates’ metalworking shop (Häftlings-Schlosserei). The internal orders are summarized with the transcription of the German text (the original documents were mostly handwritten), mingled with Polish terms.
Goldfarb stated that dogs at Treblinka attacked the men’s genitals and the women’s breasts while the victims ran to the gas chambers. I wonder why the other survivors didn't report these vicious dog attacks of the gassing victims. Goldfarb’s story is highly suspect.
In 1988 French historian Jean-Claude Favez published Une mission impossible?, an interesting study on the International Committee of the Red Cross and its involvement in wartime aid operations targeting Jews in Europe, and in particular the contemporaneous knowledge of the ICRC concerning the German treatment of Jews. In 1999 an English translation of Favez's book appeared under the title The Red Cross and the Holocaust.[55]
We are granted the privilege of witnessing, in this beginning of the 21st century, a serious calling into question of one of the greatest lies in history. The myth of the “Holocaust” may well be aglow with a thousand lights: in reality it is burning itself out. It has served to justify the creation in the land of Palestine of a warlike colony that has taken the name of “Jewish State” and endowed itself with a “Jewish Army”. It imposes on the Western world the yoke of a Jewish or Zionist tyranny bringing itself to bear in all fields of intellectual, academic and media activity. It poisons the very soul of a great country, Germany. It has allowed the extortion from the latter, as well as from a good number of other Western countries, of exorbitant sums in marks, in dollars or in euros. It overwhelms us with films, with museums, with books that keep the flame of a Talmudic-style hatred burning. It makes it possible to call for an armed crusade against “the axis of evil” and, for this, to fabricate, on demand, the most shameless lies precisely in the pattern of the Great Lie of the “Holocaust”, for there is no difference between Adolf Hitler’s “weapons of mass destruction” and those of Saddam Hussein. It makes it possible to accuse nearly the whole world and to demand “repentance” and “reparations” everywhere, either for alleged actions directed against “Yahweh’s chosen people”, an alleged complicity in the crime, or an alleged general indifference to the fate of the Jews during the Second World War. Under its belt it has a glut of rigged trials, beginning with the loathsome Nuremberg trial. It has sanctioned thousands of hangings of defeated soldiers, an atrocious post-war Purge, the deportation of millions of civilians chased from their ancestral homelands, indescribable pillaging, tens of thousands of scandalous legal proceedings, including those carried out today against octogenarians or nonagenarians, attacked by “miraculous” Jewish survivors giving their false testimony. These abominations, this outrage of lies and hatred, this hubris that one day or another destiny always comes to punish, in short, all these excesses must end. No nation has shown more patience with this Jewish or Zionist hubris than the Arab nation; however we see that this nation itself has now run out of patience. It is going to throw off the Israeli yoke and have the West understand that the time has come to seek real peace instead of supporting and arming an artificial State that maintains itself only by force. Even in the West, even in the United States, the scales are falling off some people’s eyes and there is now a certain awareness of the hazards imposed on the international community by such prolonged submission to the false religion of the “Holocaust”, no. 1 weapon, sword and shield of the State of Israel.
This, of course, would radically alter our conception of the Holocaust. In a private diary one would normally expect to find an honest and explicit account of such a momentous event, but we see no reference to it. Given this fact, we are faced with two possible explanations:(1) Goebbels knew all about the murder of the Jews, but never mentioned it at all, or only referred to it obliquely in a kind of personal ‘code language.’ Or, (2) there was in fact no mass murder going on. An analysis of the diary entries, in conjunction with relevant comments by Hitler, and in light of other alleged and actual contemporaneous events, can perhaps resolve this question for us.
Holocaust historians have acknowledged that no document of a plan by Germany to exterminate European Jewry has ever been found. In his well-known book on the Holocaust, French-Jewish historian Leon Poliakov wrote that “…the campaign to exterminate the Jews, as regards its conception as well as many other essential aspects, remains shrouded in darkness.” Poliakov added that no documents of a plan for exterminating the Jews have ever been found because “perhaps none ever existed.”[3]
[17] Speech at the 1992 11th International Revisionist Conference in Irvine, Cal., October 10-12. Quoted in Weintraub, Ben, The Holocaust Dogma of Judaism: Keystone of the New World Order, Robert L. Brock, Publisher, 1995, p. xiii.
“Thousands of other men of God – Protestant, Catholic, Jewish – were arrested and confined in concentration camps.” (Prelude to War, 17:38-17:48)
[6] Rudolf, Germar, Lectures on the Holocaust: Controversial Issues Cross-Examined, 3rd edition, Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2017, p. 456.
In 1943 the German army announced to the world their discovery of mass graves in Katyn forest where many Polish officers were found. Representatives from the 'General Government' of Poland were allowed to visit the gravesites and to examine exhumed corpses, and subsequently requested the International Red Cross to undertake an investigation. However, without Russian permission the ICRC refused to do so. In consequence, Germany invited forensic medical specialists from twelve European countries - including neutral Switzerland - to form an International Medical Commission tasked to undertake exhumations and to study the date and manner of death. This medical commission concluded that the deaths were by execution and that they occurred in early 1940, i.e. while the officers were in Soviet hands. Many other international visitors were allowed to visit Katyn and were given a free hand in their own observations and investigations, including some American POWs. As with the commission members, all these visitors were allowed to move about freely and without hindrance or escort.
We therefore need to examine, first, the genesis and purpose of the deportation of the Gypsies to Birkenau, to ascertain whether the Gypsies were really sent there for purposes of extermination.
When he visited Belzec (Poland) Desbois met inter alia (p. 23): “the carpenter who made the gas chamber.” We wonder whether a carpenter would have the savoir-faire to construct a gas chamber?
Among the ranks of those who advocate harsh legal measures against ‘deniers,’ any pretext will often suffice to advance their agenda. Thus, as laws are reformulated, revised and amended, stiffer penalties and charges are appended to existing law in order to snare greater numbers of ‘deniers’ within the legal net. Rather paradoxically, the legal definitions are in revision just as surely as the facts of the Holocaust are being revised by individuals falling within the orbit of legal retribution. Harsh sentences are expected to serve as a deterrent to other prospective ‘deniers.’ Out of sheer necessity, Holocaust denial laws invariably become more elastic in order to assure the maximum number of convictions with the least amount of publicity or trouble. Clearly, minatory decisions are being made in intramural ‘star chambers’ disembodied from public purview, where harsh judgments are subsequently applied and meted out to suspect individuals. Thus, in an attempt to circumvent orthodox legal procedures and avoid any possible legal ramifications, accused “deniers” are charged by prosecutors with ‘defaming the dead,’ although the laws fail to specify precisely how the dead are any more defamed than the living if the statements considered to be defamatory happen to be true and factual. In actuality, what the system seeks to punish is the perceived ‘intent’ of the accused. However, since the ‘dead’ cannot face the accused, state prosecutors and interested agencies such as the World Jewish Congress, the Anti-Defamation League [ADL]and the British based Institute for Jewish Policy Research [IJPR] promote themselves as self-appointed proxies supposedly acting on behalf of the dead.
“Because I was somewhat naive at the time, I was not aware that by so testifying I was offending the organized world Jewish community. By providing final, definitive proof that there were no execution gas chambers utilized for genocidal purposes by the Germans at these wartime camps, I established the simple fact that the Holocaust story is not true. What I did not know was that anyone expressing such beliefs is guilty of a capital crime: that of thinking and telling the unspeakable truth about the greatest lie of the age.
“There is no credible evidence that the gas chamber in Barrack X was used to murder human beings.”
The chronology is practically non-existent. After the date of arrival at Auschwitz, on 11 April 1944[260], the next date to appear in the book is the beginning of October 1944[261], so that the story of almost five months of activity of the "Sonderkommando" of Crematorium III takes place in a sort of "time outside time". Venezia provides no historically useful information on this "Sonderkommando": how many prisoners it consisted of, how they were allocated to the various crematoria, what their specific tasks were, etc. Even with regard to the final revolt of the "Sonderkommando"he offers no important details, not even the date. He speaks of Crematorium III in an extremely vague manner: he never describes the exterior, almost nothing about the layout of the interior, no description of the garret (known as the Dachgeschoss), where he lived.
“The statement was written with the help of an individual who is both Jewish and the descendant of Holocaust survivors.”
Before we jump to conclusions, let’s look at some wartime documents. First, there are the two photos shown earlier taken some time in 1944. On both, we can see the ventilation chimney that’s part of the gas chamber’s aeration system. So at least that exhaust chimney was built by the Germans prior to the end of the war. Next, among the few original documents available on that building, there are two blueprints of special interest. This one shows a cross section through the gas chamber. It shows that the ceiling is indeed only some 7 ft high, not 10 ft, as the rest of the building.[24] Next, a section enlargement of this document shows the floor plan of the gas chamber.[25] As we can see, both doors are 90 cm wide and consist either of two doors each, one opening inward, the other outward, or of a swinging door. Either way, such an arrangement would not have been suitable for a gas chamber, as swinging doors could neither be made gas tight nor panic-proof, and in case this layout consisted of two doors, the inner one opening inward could not have been opened if dead bodies were piled up against it inside the chamber. Such an arrangement is actually common for morgues. For instance, the blueprints of the morgue in the old crematorium at Auschwitz show the same type of door design.
The Gypsies deported to the concentration camps, considering the transfers from one camp to another, do not exceed more than 35,000 in number. We do not know how many of these died, apart from the (18,249 – 5,632 =) 12,617 from Auschwitz, minus the purported gassing victims.
Moreover, while Crematoria II and III had a total of 30 muffles, Crematoria IV and V had only 16, but Nyiszli nevertheless attributes a capacity of 5,000 bodies per day each to this pair of crematoria as well. Therefore, one single muffle in Crematoria IV-V had almost double the capacity of the same muffle in Crematoria II-III, but, according to Holocaust historiography, the furnaces in Crematoria IV and V were less efficient than those in Crematoria II and III. For example, at the Höss trial, the expert Roman Dawidowski stated that a load of 3-5 bodies in one muffle burned in 20-30 minutes in Crematoria II-III, but in 30-40 minutes in Crematoria IV-V.[54] It goes without saying that Dawidowski’s “expert opinion” has the same value as the Polish-Soviet “expert opinion” on the 4 million deaths, in which he himself, Dawidowski, likewise concurred.[55]
In the case at hand, an insufficiency of “forensic” methods might be inferred. That is, minute, scientific investigations of the parchment (genuine) and ink (cleverly contrived), along with the binding, and even wormholes in, the physical materials of the map tended to support—or failed to refute—the genuineness of the map’s provenance. Revisionists such as Carlo Mattogno and Germar Rudolf specialize in just such forensic analyses of predominant accounts of German treatment of prisoners of war and disfavored minorities during World War II, and the implications of their findings resonate far and wide, at least among those concerned with such matters who are not blinded by attachment to hostile ideologies. Of these methods, it strikes me that their power to refute is rather greater than their power to confirm. A recent example from the 1980s that comes to mind is that of the famous “Hitler Diaries” that ultimately were shown to have been written in volumes stitched with nylon threads, which were not in use in Germany at the time the diaries would have to have been written. The value of physical forensics for the purposes of refutation remains unimpeached by the case at hand.
Claiming he spent most of WWII as a prisoner of the Germans, John Demjanjuk gained entry to the United States in 1952. In 1977, he was first sought out by US Federal Prosecutors, who insisted he was a war criminal who murdered Jews during WWII. Years later, in 1986, the former autoworker was extradited to Israel where he stood trial, accused of herding Jews into “gas chambers.” In 1988, he was sentenced to death for crimes against humanity after former concentration camp inmates identified him as the notorious "Ivan the Terrible", a guard at the purported death camp of Treblinka.
Just as at Auschwitz, the Aktion Reinhardt camps had an incredible over-capacity of “gas chambers,” and an incredible under-capacity of crematoria (or other suitable disposal plans). No one would have consciously planned such a scheme. Thus, all the more reason to suspect that something is seriously wrong with the conventional story.
At Andersonville, as overcrowding increased, so did the death toll. The confederates also lost the war in a catastrophic way much like the Germans. So, there is a direct correlation between the images of Andersonville prisoners and the so-called Holocaust images.
Similar to Greece, the administrative territory of Croatia was split into a German and an Italian zone, with ensuing negotiation troubles concerning the deportation of the Jews. During the war Slovenia was slit up between Italy, Germany, Hungary and Croatia, while Bosnia and Herzegovina in its entirety was ceded to Croatia. In the whole of the new Croatia there lived some 35,000 Jews.[49] 19,800 are reported to have died in Croatian camps, primarily Jasenovac, during the following years.[50] During the summer of 1942, 4,972 Jews were sent to Auschwitz via Maribor. A further 2,000 Croatian Jews were deported to Auschwitz in May 1943.[51] Yet other Croatian Jews escaped to neighboring countries and were eventually deported from there, which makes the orthodox victim estimate somewhat floating. It is generally estimated that some 8,000 Croatian Jews[52] were “gassed” at Auschwitz.
In a series of well documented and skillfully argued studies, Revisionist historians Carlo Mattogno and Jürgen Graf discredited the claim that "homicidal mass gassings" of Jews took place at the Treblinka, Majdanek and Belzec concentration camps.[23] Heschel and her group of pro-Zionist intellectuals have conveniently ignored all of the foregoing Revisionist evidence.
Fact is that challenging the orthodox Auschwitz – and Mengele – narrative is a crime in many countries, and in those countries where it is not, doing so will still turn challengers into social pariahs. Hence, you won’t hear a word from any mainstream scholar about the fact that “the evidence just isn’t there.” When scientists have to act under the threat of legal or professional penalty, we can neither trust them nor their research results.
In November 1941, the Underground Propaganda Committee approved a sib which cunningly linked euthanasia by gassing to typhus and defeatism:[37]
German aerial-reconnaissance photographs taken in 1944 of the Treblinka Camp also cast serious doubts on the widely accepted story that Treblinka was a mass extermination center. Discovered in 1989 in the National Archives in Washington, D.C., these photographs corroborate other evidence indicating that Treblinka was actually a transit camp. The photographs indicate that Treblinka was an extremely small camp. The camp’s burial area appears too small to contain the hundreds of thousands of bodies supposedly buried there. Treblinka was not particularly well guarded or isolated. The aerial photographs show that fields where local farmers planted and cultivated crops were directly adjacent to the camp perimeter and were cultivated right up to the edge of the camp.[18]
“While you were in the military, did you hear anything about the concentration camps or the deportations?
“I am Rudolf Höss and was Komma[n]dant of Auschwitz, my rank was SS Obersturmbannfüh[rer].”
Considering the circumstances involved, it would perhaps not be unreasonable to conclude that it was a combination of factors, such as fear, embarrassment and irritation, which prompted the Auschwitz curators to deny David Irving access to their archives. It is tempting to speculate what further admissions might have ensued if the intrepid Irving had been allowed full access to the extensive Auschwitz repository.
[2] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 14.
The sad story of Holocaust ‘witnesses’ is well-known to revisionists. It is a tale of obscure individuals making outrageous claims of gassings and mass murder, often based on hearsay and rumor, often self-contradictory, and often in conflict with other witnesses, with material evidence, and even with the laws of physics. This is a serious problem for anyone seeking the truth about the Holocaust.
With respect to Auschwitz camp, Venezia states:
I would like to comment with the words of Holocaust historian C. Saletti:
That the Jewish workers had to be medically examined and given injections (which no doubt meant vaccination) supports that the NS bureaucrats responsible for the implementation of the Final Solution deemed it necessary that the Jews sent into the Occupied Eastern Territories undergo a hygienic-prophylactic treatment in order to reduce the risk of outbreaks of disease in these territories. The fact that Schmauser deemed it necessary to mention this detail to Jeckeln indicates that said treatment in this case was to take place upon arrival.
Fig. 3: Exterior southwest wall of the Zyklon B disinfestation wing of BW 5b in the Birkenau camp\. (© 1991 Karl Philipp)
Two years following Graf’s conviction, 79-year-old revisionist publisher Gaston-Armand Amaudruz was convicted in a Swiss court and sentenced to one year imprisonment for “denying that millions of Jews were exterminated in gas chambers by Nazi Germany during World War Two.”[26]
Under the date of 23 March 1943, Danuta Czech wrote as follows in her Kalendarium of Auschwitz:
“The Archives of the State Museum of Auschwitz-Birkenau also contain a document which contains personal data and copies of anthropological studies on 295 inmates – Greek, Hungarian, Dutch, French and Italian Jews – upon whom Mengele performed experiments. This list also contains the names of 117 Hungarian Jewish pairs of twins in the women’s sector of the camp. As for male twins from Barracks 15 of Camp BIIf, we know from the report on one pair of twins that there were 107 of them, aged from age 4 to 60.”[19]
At his arrival to the camp early in the morning on October 11, 1942, Rajchman is separated from his sister Anna and forced to put the belongings of the other deportees in a huge heap on the ground in the reception camp (pp. 34-35). While Rajchman is working on sorting pieces of clothing, an SS man asks the prisoners if there are any barbers among them. Four men step out and Rajchman joins them as the fifth barber. The men are given clothes and scissors and told that they will work on sorting clothes until a new transport arrives (pp. 41-42). At the arrival of the next transport on the following day, Rajchman and the other barbers, ten in all, are taken to the gas chambers (p. 55), where supposedly the hair of the female victims was cut during a period of re-organization of the camp in September and October 1942, before a special haircutting barrack was placed near the entrance to the Schlauch (“tube”), the camouflaged, fenced-in pathway leading from the reception camp to Camp 2, where the alleged gas chambers were located. The barbers work in one of the chambers, with both its entrance and its exterior door standing open. On the floor of the chamber are an unstated number of benches and “several dozens of trunks”. Female victims are led in through the corridor and the entrance door of the chamber. The women have their hair cut and are then showed out the exterior door (p. 56). The barbers remain in the chamber, guarded by Ukrainians, while the women are herded into the other chambers (p. 59). A few days after his arrival Rajchman is relieved of his work as a barber and brought to Camp 2 or Totenlager (p. 67), where he works on transporting corpses from the gas chambers to the grave pits, as a “dentist” pulling out gold teeth from the corpses, and as part of the work detail preparing the cremation pyres.
In 1968, Olga Wormser-Migot wrote, with regard to the gas chamber visited by millions of tourists at Auschwitz-I, that that camp was “without any gas chamber,” and she was skeptical with regard to Ravensbrück and Mauthausen.
In a rather amazing admission, Jonathan Sarna, a professor of Jewish history at Brandeis University, proclaimed, “There’s a huge irony here. The Armenian community is using all the strategies we invented to deal with Holocaust denial.”[27]
[19] Greif, Gideon, We Wept without Tears: Testimonies of the Jewish Sonderkommando from Auschwitz, New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 2005, p. 133.
The lead article of this issue of Inconvenient History, Joseph Bellinger’s “The Prohibition of Holocaust Denial” addresses the legislative assault against intellectual freedom around the globe while Paul Grubach considers the legal case against John Demjanjuk in his “The ‘Nazi Extermination Camp’ of Sobibor in the Context of the Demjanjuk Case.” These and the accompanying articles and reviews reaffirm our commitment to providing a forum for authors to present dissident opinions on historical matters regardless of how inconvenient those opinions may be for those in power or those who choose to cling to mythologized views of recent history.
Irving’s attorneys attempted to call a certified chemist, Germar Rudolf, to provide expert testimony that “the buildings in question at Auschwitz were never used as Zyklon B gas chambers, for killing people.”
The second omission is as unsurprising as it is contemptible. In the present day, in 2010, to publish a major work on the Holocaust with not a single mention of revisionists, or revisionist challenges, is the height of deception and academic dishonesty. To utterly ignore the work of Mattogno, Rudolf, Graf and others—even David Irving has not a single mention—is absolutely inexcusable. We can have no doubt that Longerich is aware of them, as he testified as an 'expert witness' in the 2000 Irving trial. And as a German scholar, he was certainly aware of the uproar over the Zündel and Rudolf imprisonments. What kind of expert is it that, in his own lengthy publications, chooses to willfully ignore the evidence and analysis that most deeply challenges his own personal interpretations?
The mainstream historians of Sobibor have abandoned the “chlorine death gas” and “trap-door-in-the-gas-chamber” stories—once again, an implicit admittance that they are both false.
It is unknown whether the 3,000 kg of Zyklon B delivered in November 1941 refers to the gross weight or the HCN content. According to Rudolf Höss, fumigations were initially carried out at Auschwitz by the firm Tesch & Stabenow; a special fumigation detail was formed only later (staffed with SDG – Sanitätsdienstgrade, SS medical personnel, called “Desinfektoren,” desinfectors; see Broszat 1981, p. 159).
"In the summer of 1942 a railway station was built by a one-way track near the collection point in the part of the camp closest to the [Minsk-Mogilev] road (the railway line had previously ended at Michanowice). The trains with Jews from the Reich, which had previously stopped at the Minsk freight yard, were now immediately redirected from there to Trostenez. Twice a week trains arrived from the Reich, from Poland, Czechoslovakia, Austria, France. They arrived on Tuesdays and Fridays and - in order to avoid commotion - always in the early morning between four and five o'clock. Also from the Dachau Concentration Camp a train arrived in June 1942."[22]
Even in the United States, the land of "inalienable rights," we learned in October of a campaign by the World Jewish Congress (WJC) to stop on-line retailer Amazon.com from selling books that "promote anti-Semitism, Holocaust denial, and White Supremacy."[12] In a letter to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, the WJC said that many Holocaust survivors are offended by "the sale of such vile and offensive hate literature."[13] Already in 1953, science fiction author Ray Bradbury predicted in his classic dystopian novel Fahrenheit 451 the situation in today's western "democracies" where we find "political correctness" dictating our perceptual experiences on every societal level. The commandment not to "offend" has resulted in the censorship of thought that breaches the limits of definitions of "good taste." The solution to politically incorrect thought in Bradbury's nightmare world is to burn the offensive material.[14]
A significant victim of this tactic is Stephen M. Goodson, a South African economist who served for several years (2003-2012) as an elected director on the Board of the South African Reserve Bank. Goodson is also an ardent advocate of banking reform and founder of the Abolition of Income Tax and Usury Party. Worse still, he does not shrink from describing the banking systems of Axis Japan and Germany as significant examples of major states that achieved revival by breaking free of usury.[45] For this a campaign of vilification was heaped upon Goodson a few months prior to the end of his twelve-year tenure as a Reserve Bank director. Goodson resigned presumably to pre-empt his removal at the behest of the smear-mongers. While Goodson was labelled a “Holocaust denier” it was his mentioning of the Axis banking systems that was the cause of his predicament.
Does anyone seriously believe that Holocaust stories are pounded into our minds every day and sometimes for hours a day for no political motive? Indeed just such a political motive is made clear by the frantic urgency by which this practice is pursued, and by the quite fanatical zeal with which Holocaust affirmers try to prevent the expression of any contrary viewpoint.
For what purpose would the small Treblinka camp, supposedly a “pure extermination camp”, need at least 160 meter of piping? From an exterminationist viewpoint the apparent conclusion is that they were used for a fake shower installation that was part of the murder weapon. Yitzhak Arad describes the alleged first gas chambers at Treblinka as follows:
On 1 August 1942 the Communist underground newspaper Trybuna Wolnosci reported that the Jews deported from Warsaw were ostensibly “resettled in the East” but in reality subjected to “mass executions and total extermination”.[27] Considering that this article was written on 31 July 1942 at the latest it had apparently taken the Communist sleuths of this paper less than one week to “expose” Treblinka II as an extermination camp. Still that amazing piece of investigative journalism pales in comparison with the clairvoyance of the abovementioned anonymous propagandists.
On page 276 of that transcript, we read that Senator Abetz said a week ago: “Let us say I was an outrageous revisionist of the academic view and said, ‘The Holocaust did not exist, did not happen.’ There are some people with that strange view of history.” He indicated that he believed that such a view and the promotion thereof “would offend all Jewish people” and would be done “because of the race.” He added that “these revisionists say these things” because they believe that “the Jews have perpetrated a fraud on society and got them to accept a version of history that was not true.” Dr Sernack commented: “You may very well hold those beliefs in good faith but, nevertheless, it may not be reasonable in the circumstances to promulgate them.” On page 280, Senator Abetz talked about a neo-Nazi and asked: “If there were a neo-Nazi meeting to which only neo-Nazis were invited to hear some revisionist history, would that be a public place?”
[41] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 177.
Overall, current laws pertaining to Holocaust denial appear to be loosely interpreted, vaguely worded and erratically applied, each case being adapted as circumstances warrant.
There was a time in America when well-known writers felt an obligation to remind their fellow citizens of the criminal misdeeds of their government, even against Germans. Thus, the courageous radical Dwight MacDonald indicted the air war against German civilians during the war itself.28 On the other side of the spectrum, the respected conservative journalist William Henry Chamberlin, in a book published by Henry Regnery, assailed the genocidal Morgenthau Plan and labeled the expulsion of the eastern Germans "one of the most barbarous actions in European history."29
German-born Canadian resident Eckhart Tolle also mentions the “Holocaust” in his book A New Earth:[8]
What Browning wrote in an obscure 2003 essay, “Perpetrator Testimony: Another Look at Adolf Eichmann”, about the untrustworthiness of the SS Lieutenant-Colonel’s memoirs is even more revealing: “Even more than most memoirs,” our Holocaust historian pointed out, “the Eichmann testimonies, both before and after capture, are consciously calculated attempts at self-representation, self-justification, and legal defense. It must be said as emphatically as possible that, at the core of these testimonies, there are three monstrous falsehoods that are central to his whole enterprise.”[16] We will discuss the “three monstrous falsehoods” in a moment.
I restrict myself here to summarizing only one case presented to the court, which deals with the arbitrary selection and elimination of data. It concerns a Polish attempt[14] at refuting revisionist claims based on the results of chemical analyses of wall samples taken at Auschwitz by Fred Leuchter[15] and by myself.16  The problem the Poles had to overcome was that the analytical results as such were undeniably true and reproducible. What they subsequently did amounted to a scientific fraud: They chose a different analytical method which simply eliminated all the unwanted data – with the “reason” given that they didn’t understand the issues at hand. If that was really the case, however, then they should not have gotten involved in the first place and should have left the field to those who do understand what they are doing.17
I ask the most hard-core believer in the traditional Holocaust story to ponder this dilemma. During the war, Churchill was making authoritative pronouncements about the “etched-in-stone” fact of the Nazi extermination of the Jews—and after the war, he tells British parliament that he had no idea such “exterminations” took place during the war, and only realized their “reality” after the war was ended! To say the least, Churchill’s statements are consistent with the point that Professor Butz made decades ago: the first claims about the “Nazi extermination of the Jews” made during the war were not based on one scrap of credible intelligence data.[67]
No Holocaust related events of significance.
Johann (Hans) Hers, a medical student from Holland, arrived at Sachsenhausen Camp on 13 October 1940. He worked in the camp hospital as an orderly. The liberated Dutch prisoners who wanted to return to their country soon became the object of a tug-of-war between the Soviets and the Western Allies. In summer 1945, Hers twice secretly travelled to Berlin by the S-Bahn (which was still possible at that time) to ask the Western occupation authorities for help.
“3. In the stationary crematorium [576 x 750 =] 432,000 corpses could be incinerated from March 1943 until April 1945.”
At the Nuremberg tribunal of the “major war criminals” (1945/1946) the Soviet prosecution repeatedly mentioned a “machine for the grinding of human bones” allegedly used by the SS at the German labor camp Yanovska Street, Lemberg. The photographs of this “bone mill” were the only physical evidence presented for the mass murders allegedly perpetrated at this camp, the other “evidence” being the testimonies of former Jewish prisoners and the confessions of captured SS men. According to the Soviet prosecution, 40,000 bodies had been exhumed, incinerated on huge pyres and the ashes had been distributed over the camp grounds. The big bones which had remained after the incineration were crushed and ground in the “bone mill.”
[16] Rudolf, Germar, “Holocaust Victims: A Statistical Analysis W. Benz and W. N. Sanning—A Comparison,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 183.
We also learn that the protocols from the interrogations with Irmfried Eberl, Franz Hödl, Heinrich Barbl, Ernst Lerch, Hermann Hoefle and others are kept in the Österreichische Widerstandsarchiv in Vienna. No further details are given, however (in the case of Eberl the interrogation may not be relevant to the “death camp” issue, since he was arrested because of his involvement in the euthanasia program and supposedly committed suicide before his role at Treblinka had been discovered).
Section 245 of the German Code of Criminal Procedure limits this absolute judicial power to declare what is true by declaring something to be common knowledge. It stipulates that a piece of evidence already present in the courtroom can be rejected on grounds of common knowledge only, if the claim to be proven is evidently true. Hence, the court needs to acknowledge that claims made in a motion about the evidence are true. However, this has not deterred German judges from barring such evidence anyway, when in a legal fix, by determining the claims about the evidence to be manifestly false. More on this later.
‘He who pays the piper calls the tune.’ There is ever-increasing evidence, of which the Demjanjuk affair is part, that Western nations are already in the grip of a covert tyranny which, in order to preserve and extend its power, wealth and cultural influence, is steadily trampling on intellectual freedom and the honourable administration of laws firmly based in principles of true justice. The books of UK writer Nicholas Hagger, especially his 2004 study of ‘the coming world government’, The Syndicate, provide strong support for this view.
So I went to one of the many tourist information offices around town and purchased a standard “day trip” to Auschwitz. The package, which included free pickup and return delivery to my hotel, cost 90 złoty, about $30—quite a deal. My pick-up time was set (8:30 am), and the van would be at my hotel the next morning, for the “6-hour tour.” Plenty of time to see the place, I thought, given that Oswieçim—the Polish name of Auschwitz—was only some 70 kilometers (about 40 miles) from Krakow.
There is more evidence of Diamond’s allegiance to Jewish-Zionist nationalism. In his highly influential Guns, Germs and Steel, he writes: “[M]uch of Africa is still struggling with its legacies from recent colonialism. In other regions—including much of Central America, Mexico, New Caledonia, the former Soviet Union, and parts of Indonesia—civil unrest or guerilla warfare pits still-numerous indigenous populations against governments dominated by descendants of invading conquerors. Many other indigenous populations—such as native Hawaiians, Aboriginal Australians, native Siberians, and Indians in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile—became so reduced in numbers by genocide and disease that they are now greatly outnumbered by the descendants of invaders. Although thus incapable of mounting a civil war, they are nevertheless increasingly asserting their rights.”[36]
By early 1997, Crowell’s first article appeared on the CODOH Website, “Wartime Germany’s Anti-Gas Air-Raid Shelters: A Refutation of Pressac’s ‘Criminal Traces.’” Crowell’s approach was to address the leading “exterminationist” writers with a positive rather than negative approach. His idea was, rather than saying something could not have been used as a gas chamber, to explain what it may more likely have been used for. Beginning with Jean-Claude Pressac’s noted 39 “Criminal Traces” – what he called “indirect proofs” of the Holocaust, Crowell presented benign explanations. When his article appeared in The Journal of Historical Review, the editor explained:[1]
Several of the fallacies considered by Perron spring from an a priori certitude in the Holocaust. Abductive reasoning, by which the conclusion precedes the investigation, plays a central role in the exterminationists’ methods: not only is the Holocaust beyond question, but its individual components are as well. Related, though subsidiary, is the belief that the absence of evidence (documents, gas chambers, human remains, etc.) goes only to show the perpetrators’ fiendish cunning in destroying all traces of that evidence. Then, of course, there is the claim that the Germans often repeatedly used innocent-sounding words in documents as code for sinister wartime Jewish measures against the Jews. The ability to designate some words as coded, and then interpret them according to external standards, is closely linked to confirmation bias, a fallacy of the exterminationists that skews their investigation of the historical evidence to accord with their Holocaust certitude.
“When someone makes an outrageous claim, even though they may hold one of the highest offices in the land, if not the world, we must say to them: Where is the proof? Where is the evidence? We must hold their feet to the fire!”
A close look at a map of Estonia (cf. Ill. 2) will reveal the presence of a village named Kuremäe located some 20 km south-west of the city of Narva. Some 15 km to the north-north-east of Kuremäe we find Vaivara, a concentration camp from which a large number of Jews as well as Soviet POW:s were distributed to a network of labor camps in the north-eastern part of Estonia, including Klooga, Narva-Ost, Aseri, Kiviõli, Viivikonna, Lagedi, and, indeed, Kuremäe.[178] The presence of Reich and other Kovno Jews in “Camp Kurame” fits well with the mention in Lebke Distel’s story of Kovno Jews being present at “Koromej”. Unfortunately, Reich does not mention the origin of the other inmates of the camp.
The figure of 6 million Jews who died during World War II reappeared at the International Military Tribunal (IMT) in Nuremberg. The number of 6 million used at the IMT was based primarily on the hearsay evidence given by the written deposition of German SS-bureaucrat Wilhelm Höttl.[16] The verbal but never cross-examined testimony of Dieter Wisliceny, who said that 5 million Jews had died during the war, was also used to substantiate the figure of 6-million Jewish deaths.[17]
Sample 17 was taken from the southern wall of the delousing wing of the hygiene building BW 5b at Auschwitz-Birkenau, a wall intensely exposed to the elements, as the winds and the rain come primarily from the southwest to west in that area.[27] Since moisture is one main prerequisite for the absorption of HCN into building materials – the other being an elevated pH value – this could be why cyanide values are highest at this location. In fact, 74% of all the iron contained in this sample was converted to Iron Blue: we are dealing here with cyanide values very close to the saturation limit. Interestingly, the heavily eroded, hence chemically active bricks on the outside of this wall show a dark blue discoloration with cyanide values close to those measured in the lower layers of the plaster on the inside (Sample 16) suggesting that the entire wall is saturated through with Iron Blue, should anyone ever venture to take core samples from within it.
Instead, he endorsed a speculative case based squarely on circumstantial evidence and eyewitness testimony, much of it patently ridiculous, which concluded that there "must have been" homicidal gas chambers. Accepting the validity of "must have been," of course, requires a certain leap of faith, which the trial's much invoked "objective, fair-minded historian" should not have required.
Considering the crucial role the Auschwitz camp system was supposed to play as a provider of slave labor for the region’s war-related industries, the Auschwitz camp authorities reacted rather sluggishly to this disaster, to put it mildly. As Czech reports, Commandant Höss imposed a partial camp lockdown (Lagersperre) only on July 10. A week later, Heinrich Himmler arrived for a two-days’ visit to inspect the SS’s undertakings in the area. During that visit, it would have been impossible to hide the disastrous situation from him.
[20] Kershaw, Ian, Hitler, the Germans, and the Final Solution, New Haven & London: Yale University Press, 2008, p. 96.
Crowell's work contains not a trace of anti-Semitism. He makes no attempt to whitewash Nazi racial policy, which he characterizes as a "shameful and disgraceful chapter in Germany's history," even if "we assumed revisionist theses to their maximum extent." The important consideration, he notes, is that "we would still be dealing with about a million dead European Jews, who died as a direct result of Nazi persecution, plunder, forced labor, deportation, and yes, mass killing." As for his personal beliefs, he says, "they remain what they have been for thirty years or more," that "there certainly was a Holocaust in the sense that Nazi Germany persecuted and massacred many Jews," with the likelihood "that this massacre ran into the millions." Philosemitic crusaders, please take note.
The Majdanek "gas chamber" where it is alleged that prisioners were murdered with both carbon monoxide and Zyklon B. Tomasz Kranz, the director of the Majdanek Museum lowered the estimate of Jewish victims, which was once reported as high as 1.5 million down to 59,000.
“When the Jews had got off, Stadie or Matzig would have a short word with them. They were told something to the effect that they were a resettlement transport and that they would be given a bath and that they would receive new clothes. They were also instructed to maintain quiet and disciplined. They would continue their journey the following day.”
The Kraków Institute of Forensic Research published results in 1994 that attempted to refute the Leuchter Report. The team from this forensic institute led by Dr. Jan Markiewicz claims not to have understood how it was possible for Prussian Blue to have formed in walls as a result of their being exposed to hydrogen-cyanide gas. The researchers therefore excluded Prussian Blue and similar iron-cyanide compounds from their analyses, resulting in much lower cyanide traces for the delousing chambers. Their analysis made it practically impossible to distinguish between rooms massively exposed to hydrogen cyanide and those which were not: all would have a cyanide residue of close to zero. The Kraków researchers concluded from their analysis that since the gas chambers and delousing facilities all had the same amount of cyanide residues, humans were gassed in the gas chambers.
The transports from Theresienstadt which Grünberg states arrived at Trostenic following his own arrival at the camp on 9 or 10 October must therefore have arrived either via Auschwitz or Treblinka. Since Grünberg explicitly mentions Auschwitz together with Theresienstadt as origins of the transports it seems most likely that they reached Belarus via Treblinka. Possibly these deportees simply did not recall the name of this transit camp in the middle of nowhere, where they might have stayed only a few hours.
In his thorough study of Belzec concentration camp, Belzec in Propaganda, Testimonies, Archeological Research, and History, Revisionist historian Carlo Mattogno cited Sobibor inmates who specifically stated that chlorine was a gas used to asphyxiate Jews at Sobibor. Inmate Zelda Metz recounted: “They [the alleged ‘gas chamber’ victims] entered the wooden building where the woman’s hair was cut, and then the ‘Bath’, i.e., the gas chamber. They were asphyxiated with chlorine. After 15 minutes, they had all suffocated. Through a window it was checked whether they were all dead. Then the floor opened automatically. The corpses fell into the cars of a train passing through the gas chamber and taking the corpses to the oven.”[14]
The fate of Anne Frank, who is known around the world for her famous diary, is typical of many Jews who died in German camps during the war. Anne and her father were first deported from the Netherlands to Auschwitz-Birkenau in 1944. Anne’s father, Otto Frank, contracted typhus and was sent to the camp hospital to recover. He was one of thousands of Jews who remained at Auschwitz-Birkenau when the Germans abandoned the camp in January 1945. He survived the war and died in Switzerland in August 1980.[1]
At that time, stationary ovens were heated with coke. When such an oven is in operation for many hours, the grate is gradually covered with glowing cinders. For this reason, it is common practice to extinguish the oven in the evening and to let it cool off overnight. In the morning, the cinders are removed and the oven is rekindled. It was therefore not possible to operate a coke oven around the clock, as the experts assumed. On the other hand, it was theoretically possible to operate the oil-fired “field crematoria” around the clock. But according to the documents the staff of the Sachsenhausen crematoria never exeeded eight men, so it is highly dubious that it would have been feasible to operate these ovens continuously.
Any introduction of evidence is inadmissible where it is in any way contrary to law. This becomes problematic when case law has declared it a crime in certain cases to merely make certain claims about what a certain piece of evidence is supposed to prove. This condition was reached in Germany in the mid-1990s. I will get back to that later.
I have not worked for the firm of TESCH and STABENOW but a friend of mine, Herr Emil SEHM, worked for this firm as a bookkeeper. He told me one night in the early part of 1943 that he did not want to work any more for the firm of TESCH and STABENOW because his principles did not agree with those of Dr TESCH, and he might also have told me of the gassing operations of TESCH and STABENOW at concentration camps, but I am not certain now.
So according to Wiernik, the gas chambers at Treblinka were not very efficient. Many victims suffocated or had to be killed with bullets, rifle butts or powerful kicks.
The room inside the old crematorium of the Auschwitz Main Camp that was a morgue according to original war-time plans is said to have been used as a homicidal gas chamber between late 1941/early 1942 and the first half of 1943. It would seem that operating a homicidal gas chamber requires the installation of gas-tight, panic-proof doors to keep both the poisonous fumes and the victims safely inside. While there is no evidence in the extant documentation pointing to the existence of any such doors, orthodox historiography points to witness testimony indicating that such doors were in fact in place. A closer scrutiny of war-time blueprints reveals that the walls of this morgue which must have supported these doors were extremely thin, hence unable to support the installation of massive steel doors.
It must be admitted that it is very strange that there was so much negative commentary published on Holocaust denial and deniers, with virtually no attempt at justifying argument (occasionally certain assertions were made as though these proved the point). It was strange, too, that at such a time in the national life, when freedom of speech was a major topic of discussion, that public forums avoided publishing opinion articles exploring the nature and history of historical revisionism in general and Holocaust revisionism in particular. However, for much longer than the last three years, there seems to have been a widespread policy of not publishing anything favorable to such research. Freedom Commissioner Tim Wilson opined in one article that “it is not censorship for a newspaper to refuse to give offensive views a platform.”[114] Such is not necessarily always the case; and the habit of regularly publishing negative assessments of a position or a group of people without allowing them commensurate right of reply may well be political censorship exerted not by government but by media.
Dr. Israel Shahak, a survivor of the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, chaired the Israel League for Human and Civil Rights. Citing laws and regulations that have been rigorously enforced in Israel, Shahak contended that “the State of Israel is a racist state in the full meaning of this term because people are discriminated against, in the most permanent and legal way and in the most important areas of life, only because of their origin…one who is not a Jew is discriminated against, only because he is not a Jew.” Shahak denounced the “grave social discrimination visited upon any Israeli citizen every day of his life if his mother is not a Jewess.”[16]
As shown in the first section of this article, the published text of the memoirs dates from February 1945 at the very earliest. Since Jankel Wiernik’s book Rok w Treblince was published clandestinely in Warsaw already in 1944, it is fully possible that Rajchman read it and used it at least partially as a model for his “recollections”. On the other hand, some of Rajchman’s statements in the memoirs glaringly contradict Wiernik’s account, such as the descriptions of the capacity of the gas chambers and the size of the cremation pyres. Yet the two accounts reportedly derive from about the same time – less than a year after the escape from the alleged horrors at Treblinka. Why then the blatant discrepancies, if indeed we are dealing here with recollections of a genuine gas chamber mass murder?
The lack of a written order for the extermination of European Jewry led to Raul Hilberg’s famous explanation of how the Holocaust happened:[4]
Remark: The greater public are kept in ignorance of a major fact: the man who had supposedly saved the day for History, who once was presented by the world press as an extraordinary researcher who had at last discovered the scientific proof of the Nazi gas chambers’ existence, ended up acknowledging his error. A few years later, not a single newspaper or magazine announced his death.
Next is Ruth Mendel, deported to Auschwitz in April 1943, when she was only 14 years old.
The propaganda picture became more complicated in 1967, with the Arab/Israeli Conflict, when the ghost of Fascism, Nazism and the Holocaust was revived having receded into the recesses of the international consciousness. In 1973 this ghost was used to assist in the facilitation of Operation Nickel Grass, in which the United States came to Israel’s aid in the ‘Yom Kippur’ war. According to Norman Finkelstein, this was a key period in the birth of what is described in certain quarters as, ‘the new anti-Semitism’. This new anti-Semitism essentially refers to any form of criticism of the Zionist state of Israel, an important ally for the United States, within the volatile, mainly hostile, but oil-rich, Middle-East.[7]
Israeli and Polish archeologists who investigated the Sobibor site found no physical/archeological evidence to prove the Sobibor “gas chambers” existed, or that 250, 000 people were murdered there. To date, archeological science cannot determine the site of the “gas chambers” or even if they existed. The reader is strongly encouraged to read the forensic study to see that this is indeed the case.[10] For sure, these forensic scientists (who are firm believers in the traditional Holocaust extermination story) find it difficult to imagine how 250, 000 could have been murdered there.[11] This allegation was first made by the Central Commission for Investigation of German Crimes in Poland in 1946-1947.[12]
Belzec began operation in March 1942, and by the end of the month had processed at least 35,000 people[2]—who were either killed in gas chambers running on diesel exhaust, or deloused and shipped on further east, depending on your perspective. Another 30,000 were allegedly killed at Auschwitz and Chelmno.
Part 4 undertakes a retrospective on evidence-based historical revision of the account of the Holocaust. This analysis does not trace the sequence of transmogrifications exhibited by the mainstream account, but rather presents a review of the discoveries continually adding content, and support, to the ongoing revision of the alternative account of the Holocaust understood and generally accepted among the minority of scholars interested in what might constitute the facts of the matter. The reader is left to his own observations as to how these corrections have (and to a large extent have not) filtered down to the canonical account. That some of them have, provides hope, at least to the optimistic, that in future centuries, the (ever-more-sparsely) understood account of the subject might converge with what is supported by objective fact.
David Irving’s biggest mistake in his case was choosing to be his own lawyer. Germar Rudolf writes: “Those who choose to be their own lawyer choose a fool.”[17] Irving was at a major disadvantage in his case because he was up against a huge and experienced legal team with only himself as his attorney. Even though Irving testified that he was not an Holocaust historian,[18] much of the testimony in the trial involved the Holocaust story.
Column 8: Number of deportees not registered at Auschwitz with unknown fate.
[9] Lifton, Robert Jay and Amy Hackett, “Nazi Doctors,” in Gutman, Yisrael and Berenbaum, Michael, Anatomy of the Auschwitz Death Camp, Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press, 1998, p. 311.
All the world saw in this the culmination of a long-planned campaign. In fact, it was the unforeseen by-product of developments in Slovakia; and Hitler was acting against the Hungarians rather than against the Czechs. Nor was there anything sinister or premeditated in the protectorate over Bohemia. Hitler, the supposed revolutionary, was simply reverting in the most conservative way to the pattern of previous centuries. Bohemia had always been part of the Holy Roman Empire; it had been part of the German Confederation between 1815 and 1866; then it had been linked to German Austria until 1918. Independence, not subordination, was the novelty in Czech history. Of course, Hitler’s protectorate brought tyranny to Bohemia—secret police, the S.S., the concentration camps; but no more than in Germany itself…Hitler’s domestic behavior, not his foreign policy, was the real crime which ultimately brought him—and Germany—to the ground. It did not seem so at the time. Hitler took the decisive step in his career when he occupied Prague. He did it without design; it brought him slight advantage. He acted only when events had already destroyed the settlement of Munich. But everyone outside Germany, and especially the other makers of that settlement, believed that he had deliberately destroyed it himself.[14]
3. At the time I relinquished my command there were 3000 men Waffen SS serving as guards, 300 men Waffen SS as Camp staff, and another 200 men Waffen SS employed on other administrative duties, all told 3500 men Waffen SS at the Concentration camp Auschwitz.
Needless to say these letters, if genuine, would pose an embarassing problem to the Holocaust historians, who therefore have to dismiss them by making various unsubstantiated claims. Israeli historian Yisrael Gutman writes:
The incongruence between the descriptions is apparent. While Rajchman does not make the size of the old chambers clear, it follows from the capacity ascribed to them that they must have been larger than the new chambers. Wiernik on the other hand claims that the new chambers were twice as large as the old ones, with a corresponding increase in capacity. This contradiction is made even the more glaring by the fact that Rajchman and Wiernik agree perfectly on the capacity of the old chambers and the area of the new ones. Finally, the trial verdict disagrees with both Rajchmann and Wiernik on the dimensions of the new chambers and with Wiernik on the ceiling height of the old chambers.
In 1974, the highly influential booklet, Did Six Million Really Die? was published under the pen name Richard Harwood. The booklet has since had its author identified as Richard Verrall. The pseudonym "Harwood" was later used by several different authors including David McCalden and Ditlieb Felderer.[9] McCalden, who became the first director of the Institute for Historical Review, frequently used the pen name Lewis Brandon.[10] During Ernst Zündel's 1988 trial for having published Did Six Million Really Die?, Bradley Smith, founder and director of the Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust (CODOH), pointed out that it was sometimes necessary to use pen names because of the violence directed at one simply for expressing doubt about the bona fides of a historical event.[11]
It is well established that Jewish groups have had a huge influence upon the American and British governments and societies.[93] Yet, as in the case of Russia and Poland, Jewish influence alone cannot explain the success of the Holocaust ideology in these nations.
By 1998, then, Irving had had enough of this persecution, and in a move that hindsight has proven ill-advised, lashed out against one of his critics who had virtually built her career in “Jewish Studies” on attacking him: Deborah Lipstadt. Lipstadt’s 2000 trial for libel is by far the most famous among those involving “Holocaust deniers” in which the “denier” is not the defendant. And Claimant Irving accused Lipstadt and her deep-pocketed publisher, Penguin/Putnam, of the libel of literally labeling him a “Holocaust denier”—Holocaust Denial Denial, if you will—in Lipstadt’s 1993 Denying the Holocaust: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory. The exhaustive trial naturally attracted the attention of interested parties around the globe. The numerous and powerful interests on Lipstadt’s side were gratified by the verdict, which not only rejected most of Irving’s charges, but further assessed the considerable costs of the trial against him. The outcome bankrupted Irving, destroying not only the impressive career Irving had built up to that point, but depriving him of his personal fortune to boot.[2]
It was the Catholic intellectual François Mauriac who, in his preface, spoke of “the gas chamber” and the “oven fuelled with living creatures” and, to start, evoked “those carriages stuffed with little boys” (p. 10; one will note the word “stuffed” – bourrés – and the absence of any little girls). “Anus Dei”, as Mauriac was dubbed with a quip attributed to Paul Léautaud, had been seduced by the young Wiesel and could refuse him nothing. The English translation of the book is not without interest (Night, New York, Bantam Books, paperback edition of 1982: “This edition contains the complete text of the original hardcover edition [1960]. NOT ONE WORD HAS BEEN OMITTED”, XIV, 111 p.). Mauriac’s preface is the object of some significant changes or attenuations: three times “Israélien” or “israélien” is translated as “Jew”; “l’œil bleu” of the young Elie Wiesel turns into “dark eyes,” “millions de morts” fades to “thousands of dead” and, above all, “ces wagons bourrés de petits garçons” become “those trainloads of little children.” At the beginning of Chapter II of La Nuit in the original French edition (1958) there were carriages filled with eighty people, in which “freed from all social censure, the youths openly gave themselves over to their instincts and, under cover of darkness, copulated in our midst, paying no mind to anyone, alone in the world. The others pretended not to see anything.” In more recent editions, for example that of 2007, “s’accouplaient” has become “s’attouchaient”. The translations into English have at times kept “to copulate” (The Night Trilogy, paperback edition, first published 1987, Canada, Harper Collins, fifteenth printing, 1997), with others choosing “to flirt.” With E. Wiesel, whether he talks or writes, transformations and cheating are to be found at every turn.
A genocidal attitude towards Germany had long been harbored in influential U.S. circles. The Morgenthau Plan was enacted on a de facto, not a de jure basis. Hence, it could be, and still is, claimed that the “plan” was abortive. Ironically, Deborah Lipstadt, the “scholar” who is heralded as the vanguard of opposition to “Holocaust denial,” a rhetorical term without scholarly meaning, denies there was a Morgenthau Plan[2] in the course of her largely ad hominem attack on those who question certain aspects of World War II “history.”
“Die genaue Anzahl der während des Holocaust getöteten Menschen ist unbekannt. Einige Wissenschaftler haben eine Zahl von ungefähr 11 Millionen vorgeschlagen. Unter diesen befanden sich schätzungsweise etwa sechs Millionen ermordete Juden, aber die Zahl der getöteten Roma, Sinti, Behinderten, politischen Gefangenen und anderen kann nicht mit vollständiger Gewissheit geschätzt werden.”
The next day, the same journal returned to that subject with another front-page article titled “Confession of the Auschwitz Commandant” (“Geständnis des Auschwitzer Kommandanten”) that referred to “a remarkable confession” in which Höss had admitted “that he personally, in carrying out Himmler’s orders, ordered that gassing of two million people in the time between June 1941 and the end of 1943, during which time he was commandant of Auschwitz.”
Eyewitnesses of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp have frequently testified that thick smoke belched out of the chimneys of the four crematories of that camp. One classic example is the testimony of former Auschwitz inmate Arnold Friedman. While being cross-examined about his experiences at Auschwitz, Friedman stated during the first Zündel trial in 1985:[1]
Practical conclusion: from now on, each time an opponent of revisionism takes the liberty of invoking another testimony in support of the existence of the alleged Nazi gas chambers, let’s ask him to show us instead a forensic study of the murder weapon, the weapon of the crime of all crimes. Each time, on site at Auschwitz-I, Majdanek, Mauthausen, Struthof or elsewhere, that a guide has the nerve to state: “This place is (or: was) a gas chamber in which the Nazis killed Jews”, let’s demand, instead of testimonies, proof, one proof only (forensic proof supplied by the appropriate police services), in support of that accusation. To end, in the face of the judges who try us, let’s launch the question: “What right has anyone to threaten with the scourge of the law a person who refuses to believe in the existence of a prodigious weapon which, in seventy years, no one has ever been able to describe or show, not even with an explanatory drawing?” There can be no right to convict a man who asked the French University how exactly such slaughterhouses were designed and how they functioned, and to whom thirty-four members of that university pitifully replied with the asinine words quoted above: “One must not ask oneself how, technically, such a mass murder was possible; it was technically possible, since it happened”.
Our best source of information on any camp is wartime documentation, but unfortunately “documentation about [Chelmno] is almost nonexistent,” according to Mattogno (2011: 7). Montague (2012: 2) concurs; he laments the “little physical evidence” remaining, the “absence of camp records and other relevant Nazi documents,” and the fact that “[camp] photographs remain tragically lost to history.” Current accounts of the camp are based almost entirely on unreliable witness testimony given in various postwar trials, and on a scattering of data derived from incomplete excavations. This partly explains the wide disparity in death estimates, from USHMM’s “over 156,000” to Yad Vashem’s “320,000.” For our purposes, we have assumed a median figure of 250,000.
Deshalb reagieren viele sehr feindlich gegen jene, die etablierte Behauptungen zum Holocaust kritisch untersuchen. Schließlich haben wir alle die Leichen gesehen, oder? Diese Bilder wurden in Lagern gemacht, die von den westlichen Alliierten befreit wurden, hauptsächlich Dachau, befreit von den Amerikanern, und Bergen-Belsen, befreit von den Briten – Lager, von denen heute sogar von etablierten Historikern zugegeben wird, dass sie nicht als Vernichtungs- oder Todeslager gedient haben.
Elie Wiesel, whose autobiography Night written in 1956 helped him win the Nobel Peace Prize, never mentioned homicidal gas chambers at Birkenau in his book. Instead, Wiesel wrote that Jews were killed en masse by being thrown alive in burning pits.[4]
Mr. Chairman, I am a writer. I believe it is necessary, as [Joseph] Brodsky, one of the Nobel Prize winners for literature, said, to speak the whole truth fearlessly. It is necessary to go to the heart of the matter. This I believe is where the heart of the matter is. Moreover, when I look at the transcript of last week’s hearing, I see that there is quite a significant number of references to Jewish matters, to Nazism, neo-Nazism, the Holocaust and so on. This is a very important aspect of this bill.
That expresses the problem, also, of creating a true "Holocaust opera." If it is credible at all, it will not even aim at its target. David Poutney concedes "There some people who say you can't make an opera on the Holocaust," and I think those people are right, but I add that the barrier consists mainly in the absurdity of the allegations.
In 1999 German historian Christian Gerlach revised the number of Jews still present in Minsk at the beginning of the liquidation of the ghetto to some 10,000, while mentioning a witness (H. Smolar) stating that as many as 12,000 Jews lived there (including persons in hiding).[53] Based on numerous testimonies Gerlach lists the following six transports departing from Minsk: 1) a convoy of 1000 people, including 300 young men from the German ghetto and 480 Trostenets inmates, departing on 14 or 15 September for Lublin and the Majdanek camp - likely the same as Marie Mack's transport; 2) the convoy of 2,000 Jews departing for Sobibor on 18 September that included A. Pechersky; 3) a transport with an unstated number of male Jews which reached Sobibor 16-19 September; 4) a transport of 450-500 Jewesses bound for Sobibor, of which part was selected for Trawniki (the convoy of Zina Czapnik); 5) the transport witnessed by F. Zabecki that arrived in Treblinka on 17 September; 6) a transport of German and Russian Jews to Auschwitz, likely at the beginning of October 1943. According to Gerlach's estimate the total number of evacuees numbered at least 5,500, possibly as many as 7,000.[54] Still Gerlach does not acknowledge two convoys for which there is reliable testimonial evidence: the first of the transports to Trawniki noted in H. Chilf's diary, and the third transport to Sobibór attested to by Lerner and Wajspapir. According to historian Wolfgang Curilla there further departed a transport with Byelorussian and German Jews from Minsk to Auschwitz at the beginning of October 1943.[55] [His minimum figure is thus almost certainly too low. In one of Gerlach's footnotes we learn that, according to a testimony left by a German official named Erich Isselhorst in 1945, the number of Jews deported from Minsk and Baranovichi to Lublin between August and October 1943 had amounted to 12-13,000.[56]
Carlo Mattogno agrees with Cox’s analysis. In his book Auschwitz: The End of a Legend, Mattogno states in regard to Allied aerial photographs taken at Birkenau on May 31, 1944:
There is also evidence to suggest that some Einsatzkommando and Einsatzgruppen leaders deliberately exaggerated the numbers of persons shot for their own self-aggrandizement…. If these exaggerations existed, there is no way to determine by how much and where the numbers were embellished. (pp. 97-102)
There are two witnesses who claim to have actually seen gassings at Auschwitz. But their credibility is far from established. First, there is Kitty Hart, a Polish Jewess:
The photos taken then are available in the Main Commission’s Archives in Warsaw (signatures 47398, 47396, 47397, 47399; the best one is 47398). The captions of these photographs are till today: ‘a car for killing people by the exhaust fumes at Chelmno’. One of these photos was reproduced in the (sic) Fleming’s book Hitler and the Final Solution with the information that it is a photograph of a ‘gaswagon’ used in Chelmno.
We deeply regret what appears to be the deep-harbored hate that Dov Hikind holds for our stance and for those who question the official Holocaust story. If Mr. Hikind could learn the truth, that truth would set him free.
Both the gas chamber and the neck-shooting facility play a considerable role in the Soviet propaganda about Sachsenhausen. Significantly neither the former nor the latter is even mentioned in the oldest known version of the Prisoner’s Report (HB-2). The undated version HB-5 (32 pages) does not contain any reference to these killing facilities either. The last chapter (“Liquidierungsaktionen”) ends with the evacuation of the camp and the sentence: “About 400 healthy inmates, among them 200 women and 40 German political prisoners, stayed behind voluntarily, defying the order of the SS.” However, this last sentence is followed by yet another sentence which is neatly stuck on a piece of the same ocher onionskin somewhat lower than the rest of the lines (unfortunately the archives rules did not allow the author to copy this page). This sentence runs as follows:
At the same time, Utley and her appeal for justice for the defeated Germans attracted considerable criticism from quarters occupied by those favoring eternal suppression of Germany and Germans. And Vengeance may claim pride of place on a list that also contains the name of another English Germanophile, David Irving: Deborah Lipstadt’s all-encompassing Enemies List of “Holocaust Deniers,” this on account of her statement that the Allies’ war crimes greatly eclipsed the magnitude of all war crimes committed by the National Socialists.2 In the meantime, the entire book contains not one word of denial or justification for the crimes, real and alleged, of which the National Socialists were accused, as the quotation at the beginning of this review illustrates. This failure of denial, or of revision in any case, might also be counted among the book’s failings, except for the facts that by 1948, World War II revisionism had not even begun, and that the matter was in any case altogether outside the book’s brief. So Utley wisely accepted all accusations, and pressed her argument forward with quite undiminished force. She did, however, excoriate both the Nuremberg Tribunal and other trials, such as those at Dachau, conducted by the Allies as utterly unjudicial paroxysms of revenge and condemnation visited without discrimination upon the innocent as well as the guilty.
Adolf Hitler suppressed freedom of speech, authorized a euthanasia program that killed tens of thousands of mentally-ill Germans, and allowed illegal medical experimentation at some German camps during World War II. These are valid reasons to criticize National Socialist Germany.
For the sake of completeness, we should mention that there is another roll of film mentioned in trial documents that may be confused here. It is recorded that nine photos were confiscated from the house of Joachim Drosihn on the occasion of his arrest.[217] Some film was preserved in the trial files (Figure 3), which contains nine gas-related photos, setting aside the baby pictures and the photo of a ship. Presumably these are identical to those taken from Drosihn’s house. It’s hard to see how these could be seen as evidence of anything, aside from the fact that the investigation team was somewhat gas-mad.
where 1,700 non-registered Gypsies are said to have been gassed in March 1943, and 2,991 of them, after being registered, are said to have been gassed on 2 August 1944.[7] The fulcrum of the entire story is, therefore, the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, which, according to Romani Rose, precisely “symbolizes the genocide of the Sinti and Roma in Europe.”[8] It is, in fact, precisely from the Gypsies at Birkenau that Holocaust historiography has – with a remarkably circular chain of reasoning – deduced the racially motivated “determination to exterminate” on the part of the National Socialist regime with regard to the Gypsies.
Sie gibt jedoch keine Quelle für diese Behauptung an. Vielleicht wiederholte sie nur, was sie durch Wiesenthals Mundpropaganda erfahren hatte? Aber ist es wirklich Wiesenthals? Interessanterweise verkündete das gleiche Washingtoner Holocaust-Museum, das dem gerade zitierten Artikel in der Times of Israel zufolge eine Erklärung zu Trumps Text abgab, welche die Zentralität der Judenvernichtung für das Verständnis des Holocaust betonte, in einer Pressemitteilung im Jahre 2013, seine Forschung habe ergeben:
Even many mainstream historians of the “Final Solution” disbelieve Eichmann’s “Hitler murder order” claim, for Browning admitted:
Just to clarify things, three points need to be made here. First, in all of our preceding inquiry, and the many issues relating to the ghettos, the shootings, and the camps, not once did we rely on the claim that evidence was fabricated. This fact alone is sufficient to dismiss Evans’s charge. Second, there are indeed cases of evidence tampering, and these cannot be denied. The main-camp gas chamber at Auschwitz (Krema 1) was substantially altered, as even traditionalists admit; “everything there is false.” The Dachau gas chamber was likewise significantly modified, and perhaps even constructed, after the war.[81] National Socialist testimony at Nuremburg obtained through abuse and torture amount to witness tampering. Certain key letters on the gas vans appear to be forgeries. And ceiling holes in the ruins of Krema 2 at Auschwitz have mysteriously ‘appeared’ in recent years. But these are the exceptions. The vast majority of the revisionist case has nothing to do with fabrication of evidence. And third, we have seen evidence that orthodox historians—including Evans himself—actively deceive the reader. This is yet another common fundamentalist technique: falsely attribute to your opponents the same nefarious tactics that you deploy yourself.
Friedrich Paul Berg, an American engineer, agreed with Lüftl that diesel gas chambers are not an effective means of committing mass murder. Berg stated that for any diesel arrangement to have been even marginally effective for mass murder, it would have required an exceptionally well-informed team of experts to know and do all that was necessary. Berg mentioned that even if someone had tried for a time to commit murder with diesel exhaust, after a few tries it would have become apparent that something better was needed. Berg concluded that the evidence for diesel gassings in the German concentration camps fails to meet the most basic standards that credible evidence must pass to satisfy reasonable people.[11]
Now let’s have a look at Manuscript B. This one is a more detailed memoir written in 1947. As Nadjari writes, after arrival at Birkenau, they first went to the Sauna, where they handed over their clothes and valuables. The next morning, they received their tattoos before going for a shower and a full haircut (head and body). Afterwards they stayed in quarantine for a month. It was then that Nadjari first heard about the mass killings:
“Most extensive were probably the deportations of Polish Jews to Belarus. Also in this case it was the question of labor forces. The offices and enterprises of the SS and Police in the so-called “Rußland-Mitte”, roughly corresponding to the eastern [military administered] part of Belarus, were to be concentrated in two cities: Mogilev and Bobruisk. In Mogilev there existed the already described forced labor camp of the HSSPF, in Bobruisk there was in early 1942 a need for manpower in connection with the construction of a large base planned for the Waffen-SS. The head of the supply commander's office of the Waffen-SS and Police of Rußland-Mitte, SS-Standartenführer Georg Martin, got the idea to establish a “KL” (concentration camp) and have Jews sent to it from Warsaw.[i] On the intervention of the RSHA 960 Jewish men and youths, part of them summoned by an appeal, part of them arrested during razzias in the Warsaw Ghetto, were then transported to Bobruisk on 30 May 1942.[ii] On 28 July a further train with Warsaw Jews reached Bobruisk; part of the Jews were sent on to Smolensk.[iii] In Bobruisk the Jews also had to perform work for units of the Wehrmacht.[iv] Of the approximately 1,500 deportees only 91 male Jews were involved in the retreat to Lublin in September 1943, since all the others had fallen victims to the constant Selections, the toil, the starvation and the terrible maltreatment. Moreover there were possibly one or more transports whose passengers were shot immediately at arrival.[v] Among these transports were possibly at least one transport with German Jews.[vi] Of interest in this context are some witness statements, according to which in 1942-43 larger mass shootings of Jews took place in or near Bobruisk with a victim figure in the range of 12,000 to 15,000, which, however, the author has not been able to verify.[vii] This goes to show to how large an extent these events remain unknown to us still today.
The plan to install 100 showers in Crematorium III (and in another similar installation of Crematorium II) was intended for all the inmates of the camp, as deduced from the fact that at that time, the Zentralsauna, the disinfection and disinfestation facility for the entire camp, was equipped with only 54 showers. For various reasons the plan was revised and only 14 showers were installed in Crematorium III[124].
Here, it is not the belief as such which can put anyone in jail, but beliefs which are liable to incite violence etc. The legal trigger is the act of incitement, not the “denial” as such. And nothing in this text alludes to World War II: the Rome Statute of the ICC here alluded to sets up quite general definitions, e.g., of genocide. The denying or trivializing of “crimes of genocide” is said to be punishable, but this law does not say what these crimes are; and moreover, it is only punishable if it is likely to cause something publicly visible, i.e. incites violence. The mere expressing of an opinion is not here defined as crime.
Just as importantly, one is led to conclude that his most important claims about the “gas chambers” are just “hearsay” or word of mouth gossip. Blatt claims that inmates were not allowed to see inside the “top secret” area of Sobibor that contained the “gas chambers.” In his own words: “Prisoners from the other lagers [areas that did not have “gas chambers”] were never allowed to see the inside of Lager III [the area of Sobibor that harbored the “top secret gas chambers”].”[92] His friend who did peek inside the “gas chamber” area was presumably killed.[93] According to the Polish and Israeli archeologists who investigated the camp, prisoners who survived Sobibor never saw the “gas chambers,” because “seeing it implied instant execution.”[94 ]
The expert historians, however, see it differently. For them, National Socialist crematoria were Satanic assembly lines of death, designed strictly for the mass annihilation of Jews. Jews walked into the buildings alive, and left as ash. The morgues were, for them, “undressing rooms” and “gas chambers.”
The Germans only used one shot to kill a Jew. Three hundred cartridge casings, three hundred bullets: here, three hundred people were murdered. The feelings of shock I experienced would not go away. There was not a single Soviet cartridge casing. The proofs of genocide are so flagrant, so tangible! (pp. 70-71, emphasis added).
Thus Kranz, who had asserted at the beginning of his article that “there was also a gas-van in operation”, now concedes that there is only “circumstantial evidence” in the form of rumors to substantiate his claim!
Expanding upon his definition of the word, Grumbach avers that “negationism is a form of racial discrimination which causes offence to the community to which the victims of genocide belong.” Grumbach attempts to argue that Article 261 of the Swiss Penal Code does not inhibit free speech or debate or the right to freedom of expression, but “seeks only to prevent the publication of statements the purpose of which is to minimize the importance of crimes against humanity or which aims at negating their barbarous and monstrous nature. Establishing the element of deliberate racist motivation plays a crucial role in the enforcement of this provision.”[31]
Jean-Claude Pressac claims that Leichenkeller 1 (Corpse Cellar 1 or Morgue #1) of Crematorium II of Birkenau was projected as a normal morgue, and that only at the end of 1942 it was transformed into a homicidal gas chamber. His general arguments have already been discussed in detail elsewhere.[1] In the present study, the function of Morgue #1 is examined from another point of view.
Walendy, on a very scholarly, historical basis, cites “quotations and facts that contradict,” in many specific points, the accepted version for German guilt for the Holocaust and other National Socialist crimes and seizes on weak points…and greatly blows them up in order to encourage a feeling of doubt in the reader.
Tansill argued that since 1900, America’s foreign policy had mainly sought to preserve the British Empire. He blamed America’s involvement in the war partly on Henry Stimson’s belligerence toward Japan since 1932. But mostly Tansill faulted Roosevelt, accusing him of pressuring Neville Chamberlain to fight Hitler; of increasingly involving America in Britain’s war effort; of trying to provoke Hitler into attacking American warships in the Atlantic; and, by escalating economic and diplomatic pressure, of maneuvering the Japanese into attacking Pearl Harbor. Although based on exhaustive research in the State Department archives, Back Door to War received mixed reviews.[18]
First of all, science is not a restaurant. It is the evidence that matters, not the customers. The soap story still has plenty of customers, but still, that doesn’t make it true. Now for the rest, Terry argues that after 2002 the Revisionist movement has been in decline (although earlier we were told it has become an industry), with his arguments focusing on the demise of IHR, the death or quitting of some revisionists, and the low Internet traffic of revisionist websites. Although some of this is true, are they enough to substantiate the claim?
In the texts quoted or referred to above, we notice that only two post-war writers, neo-fascist Francis Parker Yockey and socialist George Orwell, explicitly brings into question the existence of the gas chambers. The rest of the texts mainly focus on the alleged death toll of 6 million Jews, suggesting that it must be exaggerated since there were not enough potential victims within the grasp of Hitler’s regime. The reason for this is rather easy to explain. While the issue of the number of victims could be scrutinized, at least to a certain level, using publicly available sources, the former German concentration camps housing the remains of the alleged gas chambers were out of reach for critical observers, occupied as they were by detachments of the Red Army or the Western Allies. In addition, very little “information” was yet available on the details of the alleged killing agents. Not knowing how exactly the gassings were carried out, or what the gas chambers were supposed to have looked like, most individuals otherwise inclined to skepticism would have assumed that the alleged mass gassings likely were feasible. As will be seen in the next part of this chronicle, it would take a skeptic who had himself been a concentration camp inmate to start unraveling the gas chamber narrative.
Eldred Tabachnik, president of the European Jewish Congress, voiced his displeasure over the commissioner’s comments and wailed over Britain’s perceived isolation from the rest of Europe, which had subserviently fallen into line by enacting “Holocaust-denial” legislation.
Im Teil 2 dieses Dokumentarfilms werden wir einige Aspekte des berüchtigtsten dieser Lager untersuchen: Auschwitz.
Under these circumstances, source criticism of testimony is a very important hallmark of scholarly works, particularly when the Holocaust is discussed. This is so because most witnesses to this event are emotionally and frequently also politically heavily involved, making it more likely than usual that they will “shade the truth.” In addition, ever since the end of World War II the entire world has been exposed to a publicity and increasingly also an educational campaign which inundates all of us with the tenets of the orthodox Holocaust narrative. It therefore needs to be expected that survivors tend to incorporate into their memory as their own recollection what we all “know” about this event due to these campaigns. In fact, survivors find themselves under massive public pressure to “remember” what everyone knows already anyway.
A following observation by Buergenthal supports the revisionist position, namely, the fact that the crematoria smoked when operating. “The air in Auschwitz always smelled foul because of the smoke that came out of the crematorium chimneys.” This is important, as we know, because operating, smoking chimneys would have been captured by air photos—but only one air photo (August 20, 1944) shows a single smoking chimney. The absence of smoking chimneys in nearly a dozen air photos suggests very little use of those incineration ovens. The air may have indeed “always” smelled foul, but the evidence suggests that this was not due to crematorium smoke. Certainly the photos show far too little of it to account for the alleged mass incinerations.
2. Martin Gilbert’s atlas on the Holocaust (Endlösung: Die Vertreibung und Vernichtung der Juden. Ein Atlas, Rowohlt, Reinbek 1982).
This movie is about that process. This review will evaluate that process by way of comparing its details with the process, launched in Germany by the victors of World War II, by which thousands of Germans were convicted of war crimes today packaged under the rubric “The Holocaust” and subsequently executed, imprisoned, and otherwise punished, together, in the public mind, with all of their countrymen and all their descendants in time. New charges, trials and convictions continue to extend this evil tradition even to this day, necessarily with defendants crippled both physically and mentally by the passage of time, even while latter-day poseurs as victims of the crimes exploit their victimhood with the frenzied haste of one who knows that the opportunity is fast running out.
What is certain is that the number of deaths caused by the genocidal famine was enormously greater than that of the “Shoah by bullets” and that women and children also died, both Ukrainians and Jews. On the other hand, the graves at Busk were discovered "in an old Jewish cemetery."
Rolf said that his father stated that he was not responsible for gassings at Auschwitz, and that twins in the camp owed their lives to him. Mengele said that he personally had never harmed anyone in his life. Sensing Rolf’s incredulity, Mengele shouted at him: “Don’t tell me you, my only son, believe what they write about me? On my mother’s life I have never hurt anyone.”[37]
Is it sacrilegious to ask, "If Hitler was intent on extermination, how did Elie Wiesel, his father, and two of his sisters survive the worst period of incarceration at Auschwitz?" Wiesel claims that people were thrown alive into burning pits, yet even the Israeli-trained guides at Auschwitz refute this claim.
Even if revisionism were pure balderdash, the public interest would still be served if it were given serious attention in the mainstream media. The truth of the traditional version of the Holocaust could be re-verified. Lipstadt has been quoted as saying that she is “only interested in getting at the truth.”12 If this be so, then a more complete perception of the truth would be gained in a public debate where her “Holocaust facts” clashed with “revisionist fiction.”
Putnam argued that wide-scale dishonesty characterized American discussion of racial controversies. Commenting on the Supreme Court desegregation decision of 17 May 1954, he had this to say about “the patent partiality of the authorities cited in favor of integration”: “The majority of these appear either to belong to Negro or other minority groups or to have prepared their studies under the auspices of such groups. To expect these groups to present impartial reports on the subject of racial discrimination is like expecting a saloon-keeper to prepare an impartial study of prohibition….. Their point of view is important and deserves consideration. Many of them are brilliant and consecrated men. But to permit them to provide the overwhelming preponderance of the evidence is manifestly not justice.”[24]
One thing is for certain, however: Considering that Auschwitz had turned into a deathtrap due to the raging typhus epidemic, it would have made perfect sense for the German authorities to send as many deportees elsewhere rather than to let them perish at Auschwitz.
Table 5 lists the total Leuchter data, as before assigning values of 0.5 ppm to his samples that were too low to measure. The six Leuchter samples from Krema 1 are {3.8, 1.3, 1.4, 7.9, 1.1, 0.5}ppm, plus his seven samples from Krema II are {0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5, 0.5 }ppm. Also assigning 0.5 ppm to samples below the detection limit, the four Rudolf samples from Krema II are {7.2, 0.6, 6.7, 0.5}. Rudolf took his controls from two lots of inmate barracks (Samples 5-8 (where 8 was analysed twice) and 23-24), from walls not part of an original delousing chamber (Samples 10 & 21) as well as from a collapsed Bavarian farm house (Sample 25, analysed twice), giving 11 altogether: {0.6, 0.1, 0.3, 2.7/0.5, 0.3, 0.1, 3.6, 0.3, 9.6/9.6}. Combining these gives us:
One should be very skeptical upon learning that today the official story is that the Germans, rather than using something like this specially designed device used in the clothing delousing chambers right down the hall, simply poured Zyklon B pellets through holes in the wall. Such a procedure would have been very detrimental, because once those pellets were inside the room, they could not have been removed, unless the room had been cleared of all the corpses. Since Zyklon B releases its poison for an hour or more, depending on temperature and humidity,[37] this means that any effort to swiftly ventilate the room after an execution would have been in vain.
The late Holocaust historian Lucy Dawidowicz would presumably concur with Poliakov. In her The War Against the Jews: 1933-1945, she revealed how weak and flimsy the evidence that supports the traditional view of the Final Solution (the alleged premeditated Nazi plan to exterminate the Jews) really is. Dawidowicz admitted "the abundant documents of the German dictatorship have yielded no written order by Hitler to murder the Jews..."[2] Even more importantly, she conceded there is no documentary evidence to prove her orthodox version of the Final Solution: "If Mein Kampf is the terminus ad quem for the conception of the Final Solution, does its beginning indeed go back to November 1918, as Hitler himself claimed? It is a hazardous task to construct a chronology of the evolution of this idea in Hitler’s mind. The historical evidence is sparse and no doubt would be inadmissible as courtroom evidence. The very idea of the destruction of the Jews as a political goal demanded, when Hitler first began to advocate it, camouflage and concealment. Its later consummation demanded, within limits, secrecy. Consequently, there is a paucity of documents, and even those we have handicap the search for definitive evidence because of the problem of esoteric language."[3]
As soon as we were clear of Krakow city, the driver pulled out a DVD and popped it into a dashboard player. A small screen above us lit up: this was our complimentary 20-minute documentary about the camp (in English). No surprises here. We were treated to the usual recounting of the “extermination camp” history, the appalling conditions, the emaciated inmates, the gas chambers, and the “over one million” Jewish deaths. Horror awaits, it seemed to say.
One of the saddest lessons of history is this: If we’ve been bamboozled long enough, we tend to reject any evidence of the bamboozle. We’re no longer interested in finding out the truth. The bamboozle has captured us. It is simply too painful to acknowledge—even to ourselves—that we’ve been so credulous. (So the old bamboozles tend to persist as the new bamboozles rise.) —Carl Sagan[1]
At the present remove, the context of this “New York Times Notable Book” might be clearer, and hence more interesting, than it was at the time of its publication and of most of the extant reviews of it. Most-notable, to me, is the appearance of Jewish political Scientist Norman Finkelstein’s bestseller The Holocaust Industry the following year. Both scholars, as it happens, lived in Chicago, and I have no doubt that they met, and perhaps exchanged an idea or two, most-likely after the publication of the book here reviewed. Novick’s book clearly inspired, and to some extent undergirded, Finkelstein’s more-successful work of the following year.
One of the most profound political commentators in Australia in the second half of the Twentieth Century was the Catholic anti-communist B. A. Santamaria, president of the National Civic Council, a man so highly respected in conservative quarters that the then prime minister, John Howard, made a special trip to his deathbed in 1998. Santamaria, during the controversy over ‘Nazi war crimes’ in the 1980’s and 1990’s was emphatic that evidence emanating from the Soviet Union or its satellites, one of which was Hungary, could not and should not be trusted in any trials.
The last death at Auschwitz occurred in January 1945.[5]
Yitzhak Arad has given out false historical information in the past to support the official Holocaust story. Regarded by many as the leading Treblinka expert, Arad distorted a report dated November 15, 1942 by saying the report referred to gas chambers instead of steam chambers as the murder weapon at Treblinka.[10] Arad was forced to walk this back because the official historiography now states that steam chambers were never used to kill Jews at Treblinka.[11]
As one would enter the camp, the women’s barracks was on the left of the road but the men’s was on the right and not behind them. Also the grove was not visible from the main road as it was a little further to the north. Referring to Bunker 2, Pogozhev places also a crematorium there which he clearly distinguishes from the pits. For example:
It would certainly be called denial if non-Jews gave the kinds of opinions on Jewish claims of suffering that Yehuda Bauer and Deborah Lipstadt have recently given in regard to the 5 million. Conversely, if a so-called documentary about German concentration camps just like the ones made in 1945 and 1946 were made today, Deborah Lipstadt would be compelled to denounce it as Holocaust Denial, because the narrative of that time does not give preeminence to Jewish suffering, indeed does not conform at all to what is today called “the Holocaust.”
The Buchenwald trial, which opened at Dachau on April 11, 1947, presented evidence that lampshades had been made from human skin. Kurte Sitte, a 36-year-old doctor of physics, had been a prisoner in Buchenwald from September 1939 until its liberation. When asked if a lampshade delivered to Ilse Koch was made of tattooed human skin, she replied: “Yes, sir, it was.” Former Buchenwald inmate Kurt Froboess was asked if he had seen Ilse Koch with any tattooed skin in her possession. Froboess replied: “Yes. I saw a photo album. The cover had a tattoo on it. And on one occasion she was seen wearing gloves. They were a whitish-yellow color, and a star was tattooed on the back side of the left glove.”[5]
During the past 20 years, archeological explorations were conducted by orthodox researchers at all three Aktion Reinhardt Camps in search of remnants of the claimed gas-chamber buildings and of the mass graves and mass-cremation sites claimed to have existed nearby.
‘This is a race against time – search the site today, submit unrecorded names and pictures, and help ensure that every Holocaust victim has a place in our collective memory. […] Gather information – talk to your family: As you may not know about relatives who might have perished in the Holocaust, we recommend that you first contact your family: parents, grandparents, aunts or uncles to collect as much information as possible about all of those persons that might [sic] have been murdered. […] If you have family members who were murdered in the Holocaust, […] you may either submit names and details online via the site, or use the attached Page of Testimony’
“Und dann blieben wir dort, bis sie begannen, Baracken zu bauen für all die anderen Auschwitz-Leute, als Bergen-Belsen zur Hölle wurde.”
Indeed, to this day Shermer refuses to advertise the videotape of the debate in his Skeptic magazine, and he never referred to it in his long analysis of Holocaust revisionism that appeared in his bestseller, Why People Believe Weird Things.15 Although the force of circumstance compelled Shermer to mention the vi­deotape in brief passing in his Denying History (p. 73), the reader is given no information on how to acquire it, which suggests he and his colleagues don’t want people to see the video.
In part from the lists of deportees to concentration camps and alleged extermination camps; in the “database” of Yad Vashem, the deported persons of whom there are no further news are ipso facto considered as murdered (“gassed”) on the date of arrival of the transport.
8. A view of the impact of genocide denial laws in Rwanda
In the midst of these expanding international controversies and perversions of justice, revisionist historians continued to insist that the scientific evidence suggested that the homicidal gas chambers of Auschwitz were in fact either a post-war creation, or were simply morgues attached to the crematoria buildings that were later misrepresented as gas chambers. In response to this ongoing research, the German government beefed up its “Holocaust denial” laws by appending an amendment to the existing legal code, after receiving repeated complaints and exhortations from the Central Council of Jews in Germany and affiliated agencies, who complained that not enough was being done to stem the tide of revisionism and ‘racism’ in the Federal Republic.
By our author's counting, a fourth wave of deportations commenced in May 1942. Previous removals were destined for the ghettos; but now, "the great majority of deportees were shot directly at the end of the journey, or suffocated in gas vans. … The murder machinery was completely freed from the context of 'resettlement,' 'expulsion,' and 'work programme'…" (p. 323). This is an odd statement, given that the six death camps were allegedly gassing (in chambers) between 60,000 and 100,000 Jews per month at this time, and would soon be well over 250,000 per month.
KEITEL: This incident, this action came to my knowledge for the first time here through the testimony of witnesses. I never found out who was charged to carry out such things and I knew nothing of the raid on the radio station at Gleiwitz until I heard the testimonies given here before the Tribunal. Neither do I recall having heard at that time that such an incident had occurred. (Source: http://avalon.law.yale.edu/imt/04-04-46.asp)
If words still have any meaning, the presumed "discovery of more than five hundred mass graves" is a shameless lie. As we shall see, with the exception of 15 graves, with regard to which many objections can nevertheless still be raised, Desbois never located one single grave, but rather, areas in meadows, woods or agricultural lands in which he claims mass graves exist, based on mere testimonies, the reliability of which we shall now examine. Even the number of alleged victims is absurd. In his numerical tally of Holocaust victims, under the heading of "Open Air Executions," Raul Hilberg supplies the total figure of "more than 1,300,000," which includes:
During 1941 SOE “disseminated a rumour that the Germans had ordered 500 mobile crematorium units from the Ford works in Cologne and Antwerp to be ready by the Spring”. This sib came back in the form of a story circulating in France that “the German army has crematory ovens installed in lorries and cremate all their own dead. …This enables the Germans to ﬁx a ﬁgure for their losses at whatever they please, and leave no evidence to controvert them.”[30] Later an intercepted Swiss letter showed a variant of this rumor, that the Germans “burn their dead in travelling crematoria and keep their losses carefully concealed until the campaign is ended. In this way members of the family wait and hope for the best.”[31]
”Detainees from 34 nations were interned in the concentration camp – Russians, Englishmen, Frenchmen, Poles, Belgians, Dutchmen, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks, Italians, Greeks, Latvians and others.“
It was not until June 1995 that I discovered from reports in the press the wartime intelligence reports, sealed for fifty years after the war, confirmed not only the full horror of the atrocity, but also Potocki’s belief at the time that the British Government had been aware of the massacre. The official line had been ‘to pretend that the whole affair had been a fake’ and that the Government had believed: ‘this is obviously the most convenient attitude to adopt, and, if adopted consistently enough, will doubtless receive universal acceptance’. The reason was that ‘any other view would have been most distasteful to the public since it could be inferred that we were allied to a power guilty of the same sort of atrocities as the Germans’. The Soviet Union had also emphatically denied Germany’s assertions that it was responsible for the massacre, and continued to do so until 1990, when KGB archives revealed irrefutable evidence that it had been carried out on the direct orders of Stalin.[39]
There is no way of knowing how many corpses were cremated in the course of the operation—hundreds of thousands, certainly, possibly even millions. But millions of corpses remained in the pits in which they had been buried. This tangible evidence—the corpses of millions of Jews and non-Jews, murdered by Nazi Germany and its collaborators in the occupied Soviet territories—remained for posterity. In its main objective—destroying the evidence of mass murder—Aktion 1005 failed.[15]
The passage above, from a 2000 book by an eminent Jewish historian, satisfies my definition of “Holocaust revisionism,” and perhaps that, of other people, for “Holocaust denial.” Except for one thing. It has nothing to do with Jews. It has to do with other victims of the Holocaust, specifically homosexuals, a group to which the author apparently did not belong. Nor has this group been instrumental in getting laws passed that criminalize “denying or minimizing National Socialist crimes during World War II,” the touchstone of (criminal) “Holocaust denial.”
I first became aware of Crowell around 1994. I spotted his comments on the alt-revisionism newsgroup in the days before the appearance of any websites on the Holocaust (or just about any other matter). His user ID at the time was “Ehrlich606” and for the first couple years, I referred to him simply as Ehrlich. I noticed his comments initially because they were utterly free of cant. His questions were sharp. His comments were direct – but never derogatory. Crowell would later describe himself as a “moderate revisionist.” This was more than a label but rather a school of thought that he hoped would find more adherents. Crowell was genuinely interested in debunking the exaggerations and excesses of the Holocaust story but did so without any intention of offending anyone – especially the Jewish people.
Another historian, Charles McAdams of the University of San Francisco, said of the specific evidence against Artukovic: “It was absurd, a joke. The crimes never happened.” McAdams was also prevented from testifying at Artukovic’s extradition proceedings.
According to the most ambitious exterminationist attempt to visually reconstruct Treblinka, the Peter Laponder maps from the early 2000s,[14] there existed a total of five wells in the camp: one well for the German staff in the northernmost part of the camp, one near the kitchen of the Ukrainian guards, one west of the living quarters of the Jewish prisoners and south of the “zoo”, one in the “reception camp” near the railway siding, where the arrivals disembarked their trains, and finally one in the “death camp proper”, in the immediate vicinity of the original “gas chamber building”. The third of these wells is visible in one of Kurt Franz’s photographs of the “zoo”.[15] It is clear that this well was manually operated, and no suction hose or similar device is in sight. So far I have not been able to find any detailed descriptions of the other four wells, but it appears that the first three were all used in connection with the kitchens for the guards and prisoners, so that it is likely that they all resembled the one seen on the Kurt Franz photo. The presence of three intake strainers at the camp however indicates that one needed to draw a considerable amount of water from possibly as many as three wells (although one of the intake strainers may have been for spare use). Such a need may possibly have applied to the well in the reception camp, where water under pressure may have been used for cleaning the emptied rail wagons, but I have found no testimonial evidence stating that this well was equipped with a suction system. This would seem to indicate that one or more of the intake strainers were used in the “death camp proper”. From an exterminationist viewpoint such an installation would be rather pointless, but from a revisionist viewpoint it is perfectly explainable, as a shower installation used by hundreds of deportees at a time would have required the drawing of large amounts of water. If the pump system was powered by an engine (as is often the case) this might help explain the origin of the allegation that engine-exhaust gas was used for homicidal gassings. In this context it is worth pointing out that the ARC website displays a photo, apparently taken at some museum exhibition, of what is purported to be a “Gassing pipe used in the Belzec gas chambers”.[16] This rusty item, however, with its perforated basket-like lower part, resembles nothing so much as a strainer with a dual intake.
And how about the diet, incredibly rich for a concentration camp – as confirmed by former inmate Anna Lipka[6] – was this also solely intended for “propaganda purposes”?
“I, the undersigned, a doctor of medicine, Nyiszli Mikloś, ex-inmate of the concentration camp, bearer of tattoo number A 8450, in this book, which has just been published, a work which contains, in itself, the darkest pages of human history, free from all passion, without the slightest exaggeration, write as direct spectator and actor of the activities of the crematoria and funeral pyres of Auschwitz, in the fires in which [sic] millions of fathers, mothers and children disappeared.”[63]
But then, without a forensic investigation, how can one state that the bones in question belonged to Jews shot by the Germans?
Yet I don’t want to be too hard on Katsoulis over the “rogues gallery” approach she adopts in chronicling select literary shenanigans. She pretends to no semiotic ambition, after all, and the strategy she employs has the merit of being entertaining. Katsoulis is nothing if not a raconteur, and the case studies on display are leavened with pith and good humor throughout. Despite a few cloying turns of phrase, her prose is generally crisp and lively. At her best, Katsoulis writes with a distinctive – though never distracting – British sensibility that at times assumes a wicked edge, as when she exposes the myriad frauds concocted by Go Ask Alice fraudster Beatrice Sparks. Moreover, her approach is particularly well-suited to the form of popular debunking, and by placing personalities front and center, an interesting point arises more often than not. With inevitable exceptions (Konrad Kajau’s fabrication of the The Hitler Diaries being perhaps most conspicuous), most of the hoaxers that Katsoulis profiles appear not to have acted out of purely venal motives – at least not initially. More common are dilettantes and misfits who seem driven by a kind of misguided wish fulfillment. Others are motivated by personal enmity or a longing for acceptance. Some are mere tricksters, often with an axe to grind. And others, such as the “emotionally fragile” fake Holocaust memoirist Benjamin Wilkomirski (to whom we shall turn shortly) seem to have been genuinely deluded.
Josef Mengele (1911-1979) is famous for his alleged participation in the selection of prisoners to be executed in alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. American historian David Marwell writes: “Mengele himself admitted this activity to a number of people, including his son, and there is absolutely no question about his culpability.”[1] Mengele is also known as a nightmarish medical doctor whose research at Auschwitz has flooded our common vocabulary with superlatives depicting evil and depravity.[2]
On April 4, Israel demands reparations worth 3 billion dollars from West Germany in the Hague Tribunal. On June 15 The Diary of Anne Frank is first published in English.
I had asked for definitions; Pearce had asked for evidence; neither of us had been satisfied in this hearing. I was allowed the final say by the chairman who kindly thanked me for ‘a very good contribution this afternoon’. I said: “Could I say something about the matter of conciliation which was raised?..... It was suggested that the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission conciliators are neutral. I think that that is a questionable statement. I think that, in the social-political context in which that body was set up, and in which it operates, an individual Australian citizen may well be entitled not to have confidence that such neutrality exists. I would ask every senator who is present here…” (“And who is a white Aryan Australian –”, Leibler sneeringly interrupted.)….. “I would like to ask every senator here to see what I have had to say about that in my short 9-page letter of late January because I made a very serious comment for the senators about just this matter of conciliation.”[90]
A brief digression is necessary here. Venezia writes that "the freight elevators did not have any doors; a wall blocked one side and above the bodies were loaded from the other side"[181]. This description is not only in conflict with Olère’s drawing, but, even more seriously, with the design of the freight elevator installed in Crematorium III. This is design 5037 drawn by the Gustav Linse Spezialfabrik f.[ür] Aufzüge (manufacturer of special freight elevators) of Erfurt on 25 January 1943, bearing the heading "Lasten-Aufzug bis 750 kg Tragkraft für Zentralbauleitung der Waffen SS, Auschwitz/O.S." (freight elevator up to 750 kg capacity for the Zentralbauleitung der Waffen SS, Auschwitz Upper Silesia)[182]. This drawing shows that the freight elevator had a double door on both sides. One opened towards the oven room, the other towards the area designated "Waschraum und Aufbahrungsraum" of which I have already spoken.
The gassing technique described by Nyiszli is completely invented, based on the erroneous supposition that Zyklon B (the alleged homicidal agent) was chlorine (rather than hydrocyanic acid). Since chlorine is heavier than air,[58] Nyiszli imagined that, in an area in which it was released in large quantities, the chlorine would spread from the floor to the ceiling, as if the area were being filled with water. As a result, he claims that the bodies, in the “gas chamber”, “were piled up in a mass up to the ceiling”, because “the gas first fills the lowers strata of air and then moves slowly upwards”. The victims therefore climbed on each others’ shoulders to get closer to the ceiling and escape the gas so as to survive for a short time longer. But hydrocyanic acid vapours are slightly lighter than air,[59] therefore the diffusion of the gas as described by Nyiszli is physically impossible.[60]
It seems that in summer 1947 Pinter applied for a relocation to Salzburg, or that he had been offered one, which certainly was welcome to him since Salzburg was nearer to his old Burgenland home. At this time in Dachau the Mühldorf Trial (April 1 – May 13, 1947) and the Buchenwald Trial (April 11 – August 14, 1947) took place. Pinter was not involved in these trials. Probably in July 1947 he moved to Salzburg (Text F).
Well, this is no surprise considering Article 21 of the Tribunal’s Charter:
[28] De Wan, George, “The Holocaust in Perspective,” Newsday, Long Island, N.Y.: Feb. 23, 1983, Part II, p. 3.
Another fatal error in the movie’s goal of vindicating Lipstadt is that it fails to dispel the David vs. Goliath impression of a stacked legal battle. Irving is shown as a lone warrior up against a legal team that fills a room with solicitors, researchers, historians, archivists and the barrister. The audience watching the mustering of this throng must feel that they’ve been cheated: after having it shoved down their throats for decades that doubting homicidal gas chambers is the easiest thing in the world to discredit, it takes a host of lawyers, clerks and historians years of research and more than a month in court to refute one Doubting Thomas?
Henryk Tauber stated in his deposition of May 1945 that he worked in the crematoria at Birkenau from February 1943 to October 1944. Pro-Holocaust researcher Robert Jan van Pelt refers to Sonderkommando Henryk Tauber as “an almost-ideal witness” and states “we do well to attach the highest evidentiary value” to Tauber’s testimony.[1] Jean-Claude Pressac stated: “The testimony by Henryk Tauber is the best that exists on the Birkenau Krematorien. Being 95% historically reliable, it stands head-and-shoulders above the rest.”[2] An analysis of Tauber’s testimony, however, shows that it is utterly dubious.
So, Lipstadt calls it “denial” but then says that it “does not deny.” She obviously uses words very recklessly, with more concern for a word's emotional impact than for what it means. She also likens criticism or minimalization of the Holocaust to “pornography,” again obviously just for the emotional impact of that word.
Kounio gives some interesting information regarding those that were supposed to be sent to the gas chambers:
The negative conclusion (no modified exhaust pipe, no opening for the exhaust gas) was not mentioned in the protocol of inspection. This omission clearly reflects the political atmosphere prevailing at the time: Despite the negative results of the investigation, the Poles obviously wanted to use the wreck for propaganda purposes, and the four photographs were provided with the caption “Van used at Chelmno for killing people by means of exhaust gas”. This was the origin of a historical lie. Through Gerald Fleming’s book11 , this lie found its way into the literature about the “gas vans” and was recycled for decades. Until 1950, former Polish resistance fighters wanted the wreck to be taken to the memorial of Auschwitz or Majdanek (at that time there still was no memorial at Chelmno), but their suggestion was rejected. Finally the vehicle was apparently scrapped (Halbersztadt). Halbersztadt himself makes a rather feeble attempt to argue for a possible criminal use of the truck; he writes14 :
The most definitive recent study is Harold Marcuse’s Legacies of Dachau (2001). This 590-page book contains numerous details on the camp construction and history, and yet has scarcely a mention of the infamous gas chamber. He claims, without evidence, that “only trial gassings” were conducted at the camp.[11] He cites a 1960 exhibit in the crematorium that included a sign with a striking admission: “This room would have been used as an undressing and waiting room if the gas chamber had worked” (p. 254). Marcuse dismisses this claim, stating, again without evidence, that it was in fact used “on at least two groups of prisoners.” He quickly adds that “it was indeed never used for systematic gassings…”
“Der Holocaust” ist weithin bekannt als die Ermordung von sechs Millionen Juden durch das nationalsozialistische Deutschland, viele davon in Gaskammern, die irreführend als Duschräume getarnt waren.
During the first half decade following the end of the war a number of war crime trials, spectacles orchestrated by the victorious powers in cooperation as well as separately, set up the foundations of the Jewish extermination narrative that was much later to be called “The Holocaust”. While a number of critical voices, many of them American, were raised against the proceedings at Nuremberg, only a few people living through this chaotic period made the effort to scrutinize the plausibility of the claims of genocide. We can find at least three possible explanations for this. First of all, most of the accused at the trials were either Third Reich bureaucrats and “small fish”, or had simply not had any significant insight into the handling of the “Jewish problem”. The majority of the key movers behind the “Final Solution” were either missing or had already met their death, sometimes in suspicious fashion.[20]Confronted with the powerful newsreel footage of skeletal concentration camp inmates and corpses piled in heaps, many of the accused apparently came to believe that Himmler and the SS had carried out a secret policy of extermination behind their backs. Their reactions, and especially the declaration of guilt made by “The Hangman of Poland”, Hans Frank, might have dissuaded suspicions regarding the truth of the allegations in the minds of many. Secondly, the claim of an attempted extermination of European Jewry was given relatively little time at IMT Nuremberg as well as at the subsequent NMT trials. Especially little court time was devoted to the alleged mass gassings, with virtually no relevant details discussed by the court and no technical evidence displayed. Further, the number of gas chamber witness accounts publicly available in the West at the time was rather few in number. This relative lack of interest in the details of the alleged genocide would be reflected in the scarcity of texts criticizing the same allegations. On the other hand, we see that the more general question of German war guilt was addressed by a number of writers, many of them American revisionist historians. The political circumstances in turn make up the third reason. The vanquished Germany was under occupation, its press and publishers placed under severe censorship. In central and eastern Europe, country after country was taken over by communists with the support of Stalin's Soviet and it’s Red Army. In western European nations that had been occupied by Germany, such as France and Denmark, suspected collaborators were killed without much ado. It is no wonder that few critical voices were raised, and that those few emanated from countries that either had a strong tradition of free speech, such as the United States, or that had been neutral during the war, such as Switzerland.
Professor Bruno Gollnisch had merely stated that, on the subject of the gas chambers, historians ought to be able to express themselves freely. He was first suspended from teaching for five years by the University of Lyon-III. Then, on November 7th and 8th, 2006, he had to appear before a court in Lyon made up of presiding judge Fernand Schir and two associates. Pressures and blackmail led him to break down and acknowledge before his judges the existence of the genocide of the Jews and the Nazi gas chambers. The court’s decision will be pronounced on January 18, 2007. It must be realised that French law prohibits any disputing of the reality of Nazi crimes against the Jews “even if [such disputing] is presented in veiled or dubitative form or by way of insinuation”(Code pénal, 2006, p. 2059). Consequently, with regard to this matter one must neither dispute nor even appear to dispute.
Douglas’s book Orderly and Humane is not due for release until May 2012, and it is therefore too early to see what type of reception it will receive. What stands out from the Yale University Press blurb for the book is that Douglas appears to be undertaking one of the cardinal sins of ‘Holocaust revisions’ and their fellow-travellers: ‘relativising the Holocaust’. The question might be one of Douglas being too secure in his position for the Holocaust lobbyists and professional Jewish organizations to wish to confront. While Douglas does not seem to be Jewish, certainly being Jewish has not saved others from opprobrium when dealing with subjects that are regarded as related to ‘Holocaust revisionism’, namely John Sack for An Eye for an Eye, dealing with Jewish-run concentration camps in Poland after World War II and the treatment there of German prisoners by Jewish personnel; and The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering, by Prof. Norman Finkelstein.[20]
As far as the entrance to the morgues was concerned, the consequences imposed by these conditions were two-fold: at least in the case of Crematorium II for which van Pelt and others provide drawings, we can see that the original exit at the head of the stairs-cum-slide would now be blocked by the banked earthwork that was to cover the protruding part of the morgue next to it. Therefore, some other access to the basement became necessary (it may be that parts of the chute already built were simply blocked off). At Crematorium III, from what F. Piper says, this was avoided, possibly by a slight displacement of the morgue, which allowed the former stairwell with its chute to be retained. In both cases, around these crematoria there was enough room for a new, direct, straight and wide access to one of the morgues to be installed there; what remains of these steps is shown on p. 213 of The Case… for Crematorium II. The other morgue in the two crematoria, the alleged gassing room, was too close to a fence to allow such an access to be created.
“Burdenko: What did you see in the [Maly Trostenets] concentration camp? How were the prisoners of war and civilians confined there?
Hence once again, another witness does not offer reliable information about mass killings in gas chambers.
Tabachnik insisted that “Holocaust denial” was a matter of grave concern, “not only for Jews and other victims of Nazism, but for all democratic forces determined that neo-Nazi ideology should not be allowed to acquire political legitimacy in Europe.”[15]
Frankl has admitted this to the American evangelist Robert Schuller: “I was in Auschwitz only three or four days…I was sent to a barrack, and we were all transported to a camp in Bavaria.”[6] Frankl’s short time in Auschwitz is substantiated by the prisoner log from the sub-camp of Dachau, Kaufering III, which listed Frankl’s arrival on October 25, 1944, six days after his departure from Theresienstadt.[7] Thus, Frankl’s descriptions of his long stay at Auschwitz in Man’s Search For Meaning are false and inaccurate.
Rudolf did not write all of Dissecting the Holocaust. His own chapters are but several among those he assembled, edited, and in some cases translated that lay bare the truths that explode the lies upon which the Holocaust edifice is built. Contributors include a Swiss who eludes the grasp of his country’s thoughtcrimes police in exile in Russia, a Frenchman who was beaten by thugs intent on suppressing his revelations, and a chemist (Rudolf himself) deported from the United States to serve years in German prisons for the crime of having expressed opinions disapproved by the (occupational) forces dominating the government of that country.
In an August 2009, Russian-Israeli statement, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and his Israeli counterpart, Shimon Peres, jointly declared: "We express our deep indignation at attempts to deny the great contribution that the Russian people and other peoples of the Soviet Union brought to the victory over Nazi Germany and also (attempts) to deny the Holocaust of European Jews…No kind of attempt to revise history can diminish the clear facts."[62]
Christopher R. Browning is the Frank Porter Graham Professor of History at the University of North Carolina–Chapel Hill. The author of numerous books and papers on Nazism and the Jewish experience during World War II, he is widely considered to be a leading expert on the “Final Solution.”
Here is one hint. This footage was recorded on October 25, 2017 from the website of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. When searching their video archive for the term “gas chamber” the first result is this video. It’s titled “Exhumation; inspection of gas chambers; Lt. Hodges.”
The Germans organized a team of medical and legal experts from twelve neutral countries to visit Katyn and report on their findings. The evidence became clear that the Soviet NKVD had exterminated the missing Polish officers.
PS. According to a recent poll in Italy, Holocaust deniers have increased more than five times over previous years, from just 2.7% in 2004 to 15% today. And the number will most certainly grow. Locating the missing Jews was the last line of defense for the orthodoxy. Unfortunately this gap is now beginning to close, putting the last nail in the coffin. The only thing that’s left now is to inform the public, as the total collapse is inevitable. It is only a matter of time.
“On examining its merit, this report has been taken apart completely. Moreover, Leuchter admitted not to be an engineer but a graduate in philosophy, that he based his research exclusively on the works of Robert Faurisson, and that the publisher Zündel commissioned and financed his trip to Poland. In short, Leuchter was merely an indisputable crook. In spite of this, his report has nevertheless remained one of the deniers’ basic texts. Leuchter’s affirmations prompted understandable indignation of camp survivors; his false credentials moreover attracted the mass media’s attention, overshadowing the issue of merit. On the other hand, this is in the logic of the mass media: saying that a certain guy is an impostor who boasts to have titles he does not possess takes a headline of two lines, but in order to say that in the gas chambers of Auschwitz five times more people could enter than Leuchter counted, a headline is not enough.”
[13] Nordling, Carl O., “How Many Jews Died in the German Concentration Camps?”, The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 11, No. 3, Fall 1991, pp. 335-337.
The eastern victors continued to operate many formerly German concentration camps after World War II. Additional camps to intern ethnic Germans were established in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania and Yugoslavia. The existence and operation of these postwar camps is a matter of major historical significance. While the population of the German concentration-camp system had grown to a record peak of 700,000 by the beginning of 1945, the number of Germans incarcerated across Europe in similar camps by the end of 1945 was possibly even higher.[1]
Immediately after the Second World War, the victorious Allies authorized and helped to carry out the forced relocation of German speakers from their homes across central and southern Europe to Germany. The numbers were almost unimaginable—between 12,000,000 and 14,000,000 civilians, most of them women and children—and the losses horrifying—at least 500,000 people, and perhaps many more, died while detained in former concentration camps, while locked in trains en route, or after arriving in Germany exhausted, malnourished, and homeless. This book is the first in any language to tell the full story of this immense man-made catastrophe.
Debating is much more a forensic assembly and analysis of data than it is a sociological study. For example, anyone expecting to find an account of the origins of the Holocaust or National Socialist policies and practices regarding Jews or race generally will be disappointed. The scope of Debating is strictly what happened, when, where and how. Motivations are not contemplated, neither of the actors nor of the historians quibbling about the whole thing in latter times. Fortunately, despite this omission of preambles (about which in any case there would seem to be rather less debate), Dalton does carry the reader into the present day with some contemplation of the “uses” to which the Holocaust tradition has been put in the time since the events first studied. Since exploitation of the Holocaust mythology in fact animates the debate that forms the subject of the book, it is indeed fitting that this connection be clearly made and documented in substantial detail. The entire section in effect addresses the question occasionally heard, “Why concern ourselves today with what did or did not happen so long ago?”
The Germans sought to expel the Jews from Europe, if possible with the rest of the world’s cooperation. They had in mind a “territorial final solution of the Jewish question” (“eine territoriale Endlösung der Judenfrage,” according to the internal memorandum of August 21, 1942 signed by one Martin Luther (sic), director at the German Foreign Office).
Monday, the 69th anniversary of the day Soviet forces liberated Auschwitz, was observed as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. Yet a third or more of the almost six million Jews killed in the Holocaust perished not in the industrial-scale murder of the camps, but in executions at what historians call killing sites: thousands of villages, quarries, forests, wells, streets and homes that dot the map of Eastern Europe.
The path, however, which a scholar takes to get from his initial question to the final answer, that is to say, the way we gather and evaluate evidence, that is where a lot of strictures apply.
I therefore understand today why prisoners who had been at Auschwitz for a while and had managed to carve out a little niche for themselves feared being transferred to anther camp – provided of course there was no extermination going on at Auschwitz.
In the chapter “Intentional Evidence” there is, for example, the witness Janda Weiss. He came to Auschwitz when he was 14 years old and, strangely enough, was not sent to the gas chamber right away, in spite of his young age. Instead, he was put to work as a kitchen helper and took food to the crematorium Sonderkommando to which he would a year later be assigned himself. Like so many other such witnesses, he was spared the fate that allegedly struck this unit regularly, and survived to tell his tale.
In this article I will show that Raphael Lemkin’s new word “genocide” more appropriately applies to the Allied treatment of the German people after World War II than it does to the historical memes to which it is much more commonly applied.
For ten years and more I suppose I have been the most visible Holocaust revisionist activist in America. I'm very far from being the right person for the job. The most visible revisionist activist in America should be a scholar and someone who is passionately interested in the literature.
In the summer of 1942, the first Polish and Jewish reports appeared[12] alleging the commission of mass murder on an industrial scale in Auschwitz. According to these reports, 2,000 inmates were being killed in gas chambers every day. Since the number of Abgänge reported amounted to approximately 2,000 inmates per month, and not 2,000 inmates per day, the British Intelligence Service rejected these reports as war propaganda. Thus, the president of the British Joint Intelligence Committee, Victor Cavendish-Bentinck, on 27 August 1943, wrote that the reports from Poles and Jews were devoid of all basis in fact:[13]
Storm apparently does not realize that the crematoria in the German camps did not give out smoke from the chimneys.[13] He also does not realize that thousands of corpses could not possibly have been cremated every day at Auschwitz-Birkenau as claimed in the Holocaust literature.[14] Storm’s account of witnessing the “Holocaust” during his near-death experience is not credible.
Finally, DuBois did not believe the defendants when they said they knew nothing about mass gassings at Auschwitz-Birkenau. DuBois wrote:
The proposed site in the main camp was much too small to allow the incorporation of any morgues of the kind built later at Birkenau. The location, next to the small crematorium already existing, precluded anything but one short mortuary to be built, with its longitudinal axis perpendicular to the crematorium itself and a direct entrance to it would have used up even more space. Hence, when the location was changed from the main camp to Birkenau, modifications became not only possible but mandatory on account of the larger population of detainees and the rampant epidemics. Therefore, the major change in the design was the re-incorporation of two large morgues on the lower floor with direct access to one of them.
Within Germany one of the primary instigators clamoring for Holocaust denial laws as well as censorship and repression of right-wing political parties was the ubiquitous Central Council of Jews in Germany (Zentralrat der Juden in Deutschland). Founded on 19 July 1950, the Council served as an umbrella organization for dozens of other Jewish associations. Describing itself as a federation of German Jews organizing numerous Jewish organizations throughout Germany, the Central Council monitors public statements, right- and left-wing political parties and other activities deemed to be anti-Semitic or otherwise antagonistic or detrimental to Jewish interests.
Kounio was deported along with her family to Birkenau on March 20, 1943 at age 15. Since she and her parents could speak German, they worked as interpreters. Later she was transferred to Auschwitz where she worked as a secretary, filling in the death registers. On January 18, 1945, when the camp was evacuated, she was sent on a “death march” to Ravensbrück, and later from there to an unknown destination. Along with other prisoners, they managed to escape and hid in a deserted barn. The Russians found them a few days later, and she eventually returned to Greece.
“Holocaust denial therefore provides a different mantle. It has been used, of course, to expunge the crimes of the Nazis and to present fascism and Nazism as legitimate alternatives to democratic institutions, as argued by Lipstadt. Today it is used as a flag to attract like-minded individuals and followers to its cause. Holocaust revisionism and negationism almost stand as an expression of anti-Semitic hatred which carefully camouflages overt anti-Semitic rhetoric, allowing its proponents to present a public face with the label of ‘legitimate historical revisionism’ while keeping the more ugly side of their anti-Semitic views behind closed doors and away from a public audience.” (p. 19)
Revisionism comes up at tangential and direct turns throughout the biographical narrative – significantly in “The Idiot’s Creed,” which provides a fascinating account of Cole’s “behind the scenes” interactions with a number of prominent public figures during his revisionist days – but Cole’s present views are explicitly teased in an early chapter none-too-subtly entitled “So Just What the Hell Do I Believe, Anyway?” and are more carefully developed in a 24-page appendix that should be of special interest to traditional Holocaust historians and revisionists alike.
On 2 November 1945, shortly after the Berlin show trial against the SS command staff of Sachsenhausen, Hellmut Bock led a meeting of the “Victims of Fascism” (OdF) which took place at a movie theater in Berlin-Friedrichshain. Bock thanked the Soviet people for the trial and rejected critical comments about the way it had been conducted. On the other hand, some of the “discoveries” made by the Soviet military tribunal seem to have dumbfounded him, for he stated that the Soviet authorities had “exposed crimes we did not know anything about”[55] According to a former fellow inmate[56] Hellmut Bock was “sent packing” in 1949 or 1950. He died in 1990.
In this study, I will focus on the Rumbula incidents, which have hitherto received no attention from revisionist historians. I will examine the reported events at Rumbula in light of the available documentary sources, the demographic evidence, and, most important, the material evidence. In connection with the demographic-statistical aspect as well as the discussion of certain German documents I have also found it necessary to include longer forays into the fates of the Jews in the rest of Latvia.
I have a couple of criticisms of this book. First, despite Scott's extensive research and the efforts of his "diligent research assistant, Gideon Kleiman," who "scoured Israel's archives for Liberty records," he does not seem to have discovered any definitive evidence about who ordered the attack on the Liberty and why. Perhaps this is due to continued Israeli stonewalling. As I mentioned before, in his endnotes, Scott identified some Israelis who refused to be interviewed. In any case, I was disappointed in this regard.
“I was ordered to go march out to the railroad station back into the cattle cars, but this time they had open wagons and regular cattle cars. But the only difference it was that the railroad tracks, on one track, the Nazis were retreating with the heavy artillery, ammunition and all their hardware. In another track the concentration camp inmates in the train load. The Nazis were hoping maybe because we are there they will not be bombed.
Zgoda, which had been a satellite camp of Auschwitz during the war, was reopened by the Polish Security Service as a punishment and labor camp. Thousands of Germans in Poland were arrested and sent to Zgoda for labor duties. The prisoners were denied adequate food and medical care, the overcrowded barrack buildings were crawling with lice, and beatings were a common occurrence. The camp director, Salomon Morel, told the prisoners at the gate that he would show them what Auschwitz had meant. A man named Günther Wollny, who had the misfortune of being an inmate in both Auschwitz and Zgoda, later stated, “I’d rather be 10 years in a German camp than one day in a Polish one.”[15]
Before fascism can be resurrected, this blot [the Holocaust] must be removed. At first [the deniers] attempted to justify it; now they deny it. This is the means by which those who still advocate the principles of fascism attempt to reintroduce it as a viable political system (see chapter 6).
The stated aim of the conference was to convince more than twenty European countries to enact more-stringent “Holocaust-denial” laws to punish revisionists. Voicing his displeasure over the current sentences provided by law, Nener recommended that more countries “crack down on people claiming the Nazi slaughter of Jews never took place.”[32]
German doctors determined that carbon monoxide gas was the most painless and humane way to euthanize people. The use of carbon monoxide gas therefore became the standard technique to kill people in the adult euthanasia program, with the first killings probably beginning in January 1940. Dr. Karl Brandt, Albert Widmann, Dr. Leonardo Conti and others all stated that they determined carbon monoxide gas to be the most humane method of euthanizing adults.[12]
Curtis relies, too, on the 26th January 2007 Resolution of the United Nations General Assembly “condemning without reservation any denial of the Holocaust as an historical event,” but neglects to consider whether this was not a political rather than an academic or intellectual utterance which merely testifies to the current political clout of the “Holocaust lobby.” It is doubtful whether the UNO could find any ethical basis whatever for its apparently claimed right to decide what may or may not be said about a historical event or series of events. Stretching the art of the non sequitur to a remarkable degree, the US representative at the time, Curtis reports, wanted the assembly to “stress that to deny the events of the Holocaust was tantamount to approval of genocide in all its forms.” That is to say, reassessment of the nature and extent of German mistreatment of Jews between 1933 and 1945 equals 100% approval of genocide in every possible case. It can be seen that Confucian analysis exposes here a grotesque absurdity. How could anyone take it seriously? (The answer, of course, might be fear of, or inducement by, worldly power – or possession by fanaticism.)
Barnard was not optimistic: ‘But whatever the nature of the evidence, the pressures to maintain the conviction must be immense. Many reputations, of both individuals and organisations such as the Simon Wiesenthal Centre, are at stake. Additionally, the key educational purpose of the protracted trial – which took place, appropriately, in a theatre adapted as a television studio – will have been squandered if innocence is accepted.’
“The names of all those that had gone through a selection at the Birkenau and Auschwitz camps were recorded on lists which were sent at the central offices of the P. A. [Politische Abteilung, the camp’s police section] where we worked, for registration. On each one of those lists there were also written the discreet letters S.B., which means Sonder Behandlung, that is ‘special treatment.’ Those people who were on the S.B. lists were ‘specially treated’, that is killed with gas.” (p. 114)
This seems to be the only instance of a contemplated deportation to continental Africa; Hitler had referred to Siberia already back in mid-1941.[7] But evidently the latter was now out of the question—too mild a climate.(Is it really that bad in central Africa?)In any case we again see here the elements here of a true ‘final solution’: deportation into temporary eastern ghettos, and then ultimately out of the Eurasian land mass altogether.
It is heartening that John Sack was by then in a situation where he could afford to be ‘amused’. Others have sustained considerable injury in challenging some aspect of history that has affronted the Holocaust Lobby and/or Zionism.
The incident itself demonstrates that a reconsideration of Hitler, the Holocaust or any aspect of the Nazi regime is verboten in the US and much of the world today. While Stone quickly issued an apology, the episode points up the difficulties faced by those who would seek to revise our understanding of World War Two.
Next are the testimonies of Jews who went into hiding and the first is Ilse Landau, who was arrested in 1943 for distributing leaflets in Berlin. She was sent to Auschwitz but she managed to escape by jumping off the train. Her replies are worth quoting in full:
This furthermore helps to explain witness accounts. The rooms had dead bodies (true), they were “gassed” (true, after they were already dead), and the bodies were eventually burned in crematoria (true). The individual facts are true, but they do not add up to “homicidal gas chambers.”
Compared with the offensive “defense” offered by the advocates of Jewish victimhood, the defense of the Catholic Church was utterly passive. In no case, at least as portrayed in the film, did the defenders of the Catholic taboo threaten anyone with loss of career, prestige, funding, much less life or limb, as martyrs of Holocaust revisionism have not only been threatened with, but in fact, time after time, have actually sustained. The pages of this journal report case after case of these. Likewise, no protagonist in the portrayal here reviewed even sustained accusations of “anti-Catholic” or “anti-clerical” motivations, in contrast to the “anti-Semitic” and even “Neo-Nazi” accusations faced now as in the past by inquirers into the facts of the Holocaust. No violence is anywhere to be seen in the film here reviewed, something of a phenomenon itself in today’s cinema.
While it cannot be ruled out that panic-proof, gas-tight steel doors were indeed delivered to Auschwitz and may have been installed elsewhere, it can be ruled out, based on war-time floor plans, that any such door could have been installed in the relevant door openings of the morgue of Krematorium I.
Very simply, it’s one or the other. The guardians of the Holocaust narrative, like Herf, cannot have it both ways. They need to decide whether to drop sonderbehandlung or ausrotten and vernichten. In the opinion of this author, the evidence from the trial would point to the latter. Although sonderbehandlung may have had other uses, as Kaltenbrunner explained, several witnesses, including at least two defendants (Keitel and Kaltenbrunner) confirmed that it generally meant killing.
The Holocaust affirming Judge further claimed that the “guards assigned to Sobibor also guarded a small number of Jewish forced laborers kept alive to maintain the camp, dispose of the corpses, and process the possessions of those killed.”[5]
Their backs set to the wall by the revisionists, the official historians of the alleged physical extermination of the Jews have ended up acknowledging that, from the historical and scientific viewpoint, they are left without a single argument to support their ghastly accusation. They admit, in effect: 1) that they cannot invoke a single document proving the crime; 2) that they are unable to provide the least representation of the crime weapon; 3) that they do not possess any proof nor even any evidence; 4) that they cannot name a single truthful witness (see above, S. Veil’s opinion on the matter); 5) that their dossier is rotten (twice repeated), irremediably rotten and that it is bound for the rubbish bins of history; 6) that the sources formerly invoked have revealed themselves to be not only rarer than was claimed but also unreliable; 7) that the alleged traces of the crime are few and far between, and difficult to interpret; 8) that at their end there have been falsifications, misrepresentation, artifice; 9) that in support of their case there has too often been invoked a “silly [sic] story”, that of a decision to exterminate the Jews supposedly taken on January 20, 1942 at Berlin-Wannsee; 10) that the foremost of their number, Raul Hilberg, is today reduced to explaining it all, in a nonsensical way, by supposed initiatives that the German bureaucracy had, according to him, boldly taken without any order, plan, instruction or supervision and thanks simply, it seems, to an incredible meeting of minds and a consensus-mind reading. These official historians have not known how to answer any of the revisionists’ requests or observations in the style of: 1) “Show me or draw me a Nazi gas chamber”; 2) “Bring me one proof, one single piece of evidence of your own choosing, on the grounds of which to assert that there was a genocide”; 3) “Bring me one testimony, one single testimony, the best one in your opinion” or again: 4) “No holes, no Holocaust ”. Finding themselves on the ropes, the court historians have called on the law-courts to find against the revisionists, but, contrary to all expectation, it has sometimes happened that the judges have gone so far as to pay tribute to the revisionists’ uprightness or to show their surprise before the sparseness or absence of the accusers’ documentary evidence. Then, first in France and later in a number of other countries in Europe, these accusers have called for the passing of special laws to silence the revisionists. Here they have sealed their doom. To resort to special laws, to the police and prisons is to admit one’s utter inability to use the arguments of reason, history and science.
In effect, the judge asserted that since solid evidence for the homicidal gas chambers was lacking, flimsy evidence would have to do. “The consequence of the absence of any overt documentary evidence of gas chambers at these camps, coupled with the lack of archeological evidence, means that reliance has to be placed on eyewitness and circumstantial evidence . . .”
Other defenders of the Holocaust story assume that the Nazis used code words such as “special treatment” to hide their genocide of European Jewry.[35] This theory does not explain why the Nazis used explicit written orders for all of their other crimes. For example, Heinrich Himmler authorized in writing many illegal human medical experiments and executions in the German concentration camps. Adolf Hitler’s other crimes including the euthanasia program were all made in writing. It is absurd to think that only the genocide of European Jewry was hidden behind code words, while all other German war crimes were clearly stated in writing.
Die Todesmühlen was a film made to be shown to German audiences. The maker is not identified in the film, but German Wikipedia states that it was produced by the U.S. Office of Military Government for Germany (OMGUS), and directed by Hanuš Burger and Billy Wilder. (There was also a Yiddish edition.) It refers to 20 million murdered “according to current estimates” (which implies 14 million non-Jewish deaths!) and claims that every concentration camp (of which there were more than 300, we are told) was a death mill. At the end of the film it is stated that such death mills (since every concentration camp was said to be one) had existed since 1933, eight years before the Holocaust, as presently conceived, is supposed to have begun. Die Todesmühlen mentions Jews but only as one of several persecuted religious groups:
Republican Party Animal is a layered chronicle of David Cole’s short but storied public career as a “Jewish Holocaust denier” and of his equally unlikely “second life” as David Stein, when he would come to play an influential role as an event organizer and Op-Ed dynamo among the guarded ranks of Hollywood conservatives before having his heretical past exposed by a vindictive ex-girlfriend. The dual biographical narratives converge in a morally conflicted tale of downfall and personal reinvention, of intersecting identities and of consequences wrought in the whirlwind momentum of a life less ordinary.
The document states “whenever the denial of the Holocaust is accompanied by the accusation that Jews or Zionists invented the story for their own ulterior motives, such statements could and should be dealt with by laws against incitement to racial hatred.”[6] The report protests that current laws are wholly inadequate to punish offenders for thought crimes and cites the Federal Republic of Germany, rather than Israel, as setting a proper precedent other governments should emulate. The striking irony of Jewish pressure groups based in England advocating punitive laws to prosecute German citizens for thought crimes was apparently lost on the compilers of the report.
The American authors of this text need to be asked why they have omitted to mention the fifty to a hundred million Native Americans whose lives were erased by the White Man, the greatest genocide in recorded human history. It’s one that did really happen, so they would presumably argue that nobody is trying to “deny” it. Native Americans are America’s real “Holocaust survivors.”
“As early as the autumn of 1941 gassings were carried out in a room of the small crematorium, the room having been fitted for that purpose. It could take in some 200–250 people, was higher than a normal living room, had no windows, and only one door that had been made [gas] tight and had a lock like the door of an air-raid shelter.”
The case is all but closed. The facts are in, and most any rational and impartial observer would likely come to the following conclusions: (1) the ‘6 million’ is a vast overestimate, by a factor of 10 or more; (2) the alleged homicidal gas chambers were used far less often than is portrayed—and perhaps not at all; (3) the data are far more compatible with the deportation thesis than with the mass murder thesis; (4) there has been a concerted effort by professional historians and others to cover up inconvenient facts, to lie, and to avoid discussion of the many problematic aspects of the Holocaust story; and (5) the public has been repeatedly misled and manipulated by a false image of Jewish suffering.[74]
We now move to Rebecca Weisner who was sent to Auschwitz in October 1942 at the age of 16:
Crowell concludes that the evidence put forward overwhelmingly refers to either disinfection or civil air defense.  The gassing story is a mass delusion that was reinforced by various pressures of social and cultural change as well as by censorship.
Along with numerous other physicians, Mengele routinely made selections of people who were capable of working from the transports of new arrivals at Auschwitz. He said his job had been to classify those “able to work” from those “unable to work.” He also said that he tried to grade as many people as possible as “able to work.” Mengele correctly denied that he had sent anyone at Auschwitz to homicidal gas chambers. Mengele repeatedly said he had never harmed anyone at Auschwitz.[11]
Camp 1 was known as the "Star Camp," where the original contingent of prisoners was housed. Entire families were housed in this section of the camp. Most of these inmates were in relatively good health when they were liberated. The Star Camp consisted of some 18 large wooden huts, and housed some 4,400 so-called "exchange Jews," of which the Dutch were the most prominent, numbering some 3,600 souls. The inmates housed in this area were not required to wear the usual striped concentration camp uniform with which the world is by now so familiar. The occupants were obliged to wear a large Jewish Star on their clothing, thus the appellation, "Star Camp." This camp was ostensibly administered by a council of Jewish elders. The men and women were housed separately, but families were allowed to visit together during daylight hours. The inmates had also received permission from the camp authorities to write letters to friends and relatives, although all correspondence was strictly censored. All inmates were obliged to work in the so-called "Schuh-kommando," where they were expected to either repair or take apart old shoes, which were subsequently recycled for later use by the Germans. Out of the 18 huts, two were reserved as a sick bay.
All, really without exception all motions of the defense to introduce evidence demonstrating that the defendant’s historical views are well founded or even correct, are denied on the grounds of common knowledge to the contrary. Decades of precedent ruling by the German Federal Supreme Court – not to be confused with Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court – even compel German courts to this stance.
The Jewish Hungarian physician Miklos Nyiszli published a book of memoirs shortly after World War II about his experiences at Auschwitz. These memoirs have been used by mainstream historians as the primary source of Mengele’s alleged crimes at Auschwitz. Nyiszli’s memoirs, however, contain numerous errors and weaknesses that call into question the veracity of his claims.[24]
Auschwitz again became the focus of international attention when British author David Irving was fined the equivalent of $6,000 by a Munich court on 5 May 1992 for “denying that Jews died in the gas chambers of the Auschwitz concentration camp,” and “disparaging the memory of the [Jewish] dead.”[17] German Judge Thomas Stelzner rejected Irving’s appeal of a previous fine of $4,300 for remarking during the course of a meeting held in April 1990 in Munich that the building shown in Auschwitz as a “homicidal gas chamber” was in fact a phony reconstruction [Atrappen] built after the war. Steltzner responded by increasing the fine because of Irving’s apparent ‘lack of understanding’ and the fact that he had earned money from disseminating his opinion that the Auschwitz gas chambers were lies.
Although I do not wish to argue here that coke-fired crematory chimneys of that era did not emit smoke, I will show in the following that Mattogno’s air photo evidence is flawed. In fact, what is visible on that particular air photo is not smoke from a chimney, as Mattogno claimed (see my Ill. 1), but rather a defect in the photograph.
“In any event, Auschwitz was less than one hundred kilometers from us. Every now and then, one thing or another got through to us about how the Nazis had numerous people in the camp. But, about the actual gassing or the elimination of the Jews, that was not known right up until the last days of the war. But that the Nazis interned people there, that the camp was full of people, that was definitely known.” (p. 222)
Beyond various short book reviews, editorials, and commentary that Crowell penned at the time under various pseudonyms, he set to work to complete his revisionist magnum opus, The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes: An Attempt at a Literary Analysis of the Holocaust Gassing Claim. Crowell’s book-length effort now went beyond the “bomb-shelter thesis” and examined the origin of the gas-chamber stories from the first reports through the disinfection procedures, the confessions of key witnesses and even the euthanasia campaign. Again, using his standard approach, Crowell sought to find logical explanations for the stories, which developed into what he termed “the Canonical Holocaust.” His approach was again a unique one. He applied the methodology of literary analysis and considered the sources and reports in a chronological and comparative method.
In their study The 'Final Solution' in Riga, originally published in German in 2006, historians Andrej Angrick and Peter Klein devote two chapters to the Salaspils camp. Here we learn that the camp, assigned to the Regional Commander of the Security Police (KdS) Latvia, was constructed starting September 1941 and meant to house Latvian political prisoners as well as Latvian Jews and Jews brought from Germany, Austria and the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. Originally the camp was planned to hold about 25,000 inmates. A POW camp, Stalag 350, which held some 40,000 prisoners, was already located nearby.[108] By mid-January 1942 at least 1,000 Jews were working in the camp.[109] On 2 February 1942 a status report from the office of the Territorial Commander of the Security Police and Security Service (BdS) Ostland advised that construction was underway at Salaspils on
The facts regarding the Ukrainian terror famine of the early 1930s and the Stalinist gulag were also known in broad outline in European right-wing circles. When all is said and done, Nolte concludes, "the Gulag came before Auschwitz." If it had not been for what happened in Soviet Russia, European fascism, especially Nazism and the Nazi massacre of the Jews,8 would most probably not have been what they were.
Today no credible historian thinks that homicidal gas chambers were utilized at Dachau.[8]
Elie Wiesel, whose memoir Night, published in 1958, helped him win the Nobel Peace Prize, never mentioned homicidal gas chambers in his book. Instead, Wiesel wrote that Jews were killed en masse by being thrown alive into burning pits.[13] If there had actually been homicidal gas chambers at Birkenau, one would think that Wiesel would have mentioned the gas chambers in his autobiography. Also, if there had been burning pits at Birkenau, these would have shown up in some of the Allied aerial photographs taken of Birkenau in 1944, around the time he said he saw them.
In other writings, Snyder makes it clear that his understanding of the Holocaust is much more sensitive to detail and subtlety than most Holocaust historians provide. He recognizes that the persecution, death, and mass murder of Jews was due to a large variety of factors, including inter-group competition, Jewish involvement with communism, and even competition among Jews, as in terms of the Jewish police forces in the ghettoes that enforced the confinement, deportations, and deaths of their co-religionists.
Israeli and Polish archeologists, whose forensic investigations of Sobibor are ongoing, made this statement: “We regard the extermination process as a past reality, a series of historically established events, which do not need to be proven by archeological excavations. Archaeology, in our case, has the role of supplementing and filling gaps, especially in terms of site layout, structures and artifacts.”[103]
To this day there is no air photo evidence to support the alleged mass murder of the Jews at any location in Europe occupied by the Germans during World War Two. Further, air photo analysis refutes the claim that the ‘Nazis’ had intended, at whatever time, to keep events in the alleged extermination camps secret.[18]
And taboos there are aplenty, but in the arena (yes, it is an arena) of history today, none looms larger than the bedrock of Jewish nationalism, the Holocaust. This review, then, will counterpose the destruction of the taboo against priestly pederasty in the first years of the present century with the efforts ever since World War II to overcome the global taboo against correcting the history underpinning the story everyone knows as the Holocaust. There are as many differences between these two as there are similarities; the differences can be quite as illuminating as the similarities.
The mention of Auschwitz is crucial: here we have a witness who explicitly states, based on his own experience, that transports arrived in the occupied eastern territories from one of the "extermination camps". The mention of Theresienstadt is likewise of utmost importance: The last documented transport from Theresienstadt to Belarus departed on 22 September 1942, i.e. more than two weeks before Grünberg arrived in Trostinec. In October 1942, as has already been mentioned, five transports were sent from Theresienstadt to Treblinka:
Carlo Mattogno concludes: “Orthodox Holocaust historiography has never proven that the authorities of the Reich planned and carried out a general plan on an institutional level to eliminate the bodies of the victims of the Einsatzgruppen and other associated units by means of a concerted operation of exhumation and cremation of bodies.”[17]
Crowell was done with the Holocaust story. As such he turned his attention to other subjects. Foremost in his mind was another historical controversy—one that he claimed to wrestle with for 50 years — that of the authorship of the works of William Shakespeare. His final book was William Fortyhands: Disintegration and Reinvention of the Shakespeare Canon (2016). Crowell stated that his disintegration of the Shakespeare canon was the work that he was most proud of. Crowell inscribed the copy that he gave me, “The H. is over, so time for other things.” Indeed, for Crowell, he had said all that he could say on the Holocaust.
Fortunately I was able to purchase a typewriter in the Stuttgart prison. I decided therefore to use this ultimate weapon of crime for its intended purpose. Some of my lawyers agreed to help me (I won’t say which). They got me books that are outlawed in Germany. They agreed to smuggle out publishing projects. So I started translating revisionist works in my prison cell: I translated “The Leuchter Report. Critical Edition” and “Auschwitz: The First Gassing” from English to German, and I also started some other books. The typescripts were then sent to England to my helpers there in order to get them published. Little did I realize that those folks were either too disorganized or inept to pull off a project like this, or else they were too timid, always afraid to harm me (or using this as an excuse, I don’t know). Anyway, fact is that I had a zillion cell searches during that time by the prison guards, but they were never suspicious of anything. After all, they were looking only for drugs, weapons, alcoholic beverages, cell phones and objects like that. Paper was not of any interest to them. Hence my piles of papers in my locker, on my desk and in my binders on the floor were always ignored…
5) The invoice (Rechnung) of the Topf Company no. 171 of February 22nd 1943, refers to the ventilation system of Crematorium II (Document 20).
the spectacle of young boys fresh out of Kansas and Texas turning nonmilitary Dresden into a holocaust ... pulverizing ancient shrines like Monte Cassino and Nuremberg, and bringing atomic annihilation to Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
British prosecutor Sir Hartley Shawcross echoed Jackson’s words in his final address to the IMT. Based on Jewish influence, numerous other Holocaust-related trials were later held in West Germany, Israel and the United States, including the highly-publicized trials in Jerusalem of Adolf Eichmann and John Demjanjuk.[34]
The story of the "back-up from a preceding convoy" is furthermore disproved by the Kalendariumof Auschwitz, according to which the last gassing before 6 May 1944 was performed on 2 May, but the presumed 2,698 victims[65], based on the cremation capacity described by Venezia[66], would have been cremated in less than two days; on the other hand, the first gassing subsequent to that date is said to have occurred on 13 May[67]. In the book, "the morning after" became "a few days after our arrival"[68], but this did not change the conclusion which flows from his account: Venezia in Crematorium II or III could not have seen the group of bodies of presumed gassing victims.
This is the quote from Hitler’s Table Talk (p. 87) that Rees had previously falsified in his book on Auschwitz. This time he quotes it correctly but as can be seen he omits something. He also quotes it in a previous chapter with the same omission (p. 32). The unsuspected reader will not notice this, and it’s actually the most important part:
Rudolf writes, "Pressure causes counter pressure." With the extreme pressure currently being exerted against revisionists, their resolve is only strengthened. Revisionists have the right to doubt, to research, to challenge and to question just as anyone else does. The Holocaust is just like any other historical event. It must be researched to arrive at the truth of what exactly did and what did not happen. It should not be protected by law.
Standing in the courtyard of the crematorium, Venezia noted "that the building had one window at the height of a man". Recounted this may, the story is rather ingenuous, since along the entire outside perimeter of the crematorium there were no fewer than 47 windows the height of a man[60]. There were 47 windows to choose from! In the book, Venezia returns to the episode, writing:
Paolo Lobba, PhD, LLM, is a legal officer in the Supreme Court Chamber of the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia.
Long before the Holocaust, the Jews of Givat Shaul immigrated to Palestine to build a state for Jews only. They worked the land and built houses next to Deir Yassin. They fought with their neighbors, but also respected them and had even signed a non-aggression pact to which both villages adhered. Certainly they must have preferred to live only among Jews, but there was a limit (Yesh G'vul). Murdering, plundering, terrorizing, dehumanizing, and expelling the indigenous population were not and are not in keeping with the true spirit of Judaism, the Judaism of the prophets.
Here, historically, is where the problem arises. As I showed in a specific study, to which the reader may refer,[3] the air photographs of Birkenau taken between May and September 1944 do not show any cremation pits in the vicinity of the so-called “Bunker 2” and only a small area, about 50 meters square, which appears to be emitting smoke, in the courtyard of Crematorium V. Assuming the data adopted by Müller, to cremate the 10,000 bodies per day referred to by Piper would have required cremation pits with a total surface area of 3,000 square meters,[4] 60 times as much. In reality, due to the high water table, the necessary surface area would have been 9,000 square meters, 180 times larger than that attested to by the aerial photographs!
(1) Were the Nazis so stupid as to not think of this problem at the outset? And yet so brilliant as to effect the total elimination of evidence?
The documentary evidence, which indicates that a high percentage of inmates at Birkenau were disabled, also refutes the claim that homicidal gas chambers existed at Auschwitz-Birkenau. Oswald Pohl, in a secret report to Heinrich Himmler dated April 5, 1944, stated that there were 67,000 inmates in the entire Auschwitz-Birkenau camp complex, of whom 18,000 were unable to work. In Birkenau there were a total of 36,000 inmates, of whom “approximately 15,000 are unable to work.”[14] Rather than sending disabled Jews to homicidal gas chambers, Mengele and other doctors at Auschwitz worked to heal and restore many thousands of inmates.[15]
Even after the Graf trial, it took some time before Fröhlich himself was troubled by the authorities. In 2001 he published a 368-page book entitled Die Gaskammer Lüge (‘The Gas Chamber Lie’). This led to a warrant for his arrest, but no immediate proceedings followed.
On 9 February 2009, a group of ‘World Jewish leaders’ advised the Pope that “denying the Shoah was not an opinion but a crime.” Clearly, no bishop had “denied the Shoah’ which alludes to the whole tragic and terrible experience of Jews throughout World War Two- as those ‘World Jewish leaders’ who put out this deceptive statement knew very well.
Ironically, Lipstadt, who seems to have coined the term “Holocaust denial,” indulges in “denial” herself when she alludes to the Morgenthau Plan as “never put into effect,” the claims of “Holocaust deniers” to the contrary.[30] According to Lipstadt, the Morgenthau Plan is of such interest to “Holocaust deniers” because they are anti-Semites, and Morgenthau was Jewish. She rationalizes the wholesale barbarity inflicted upon Germany after World War Two as “shortcomings in Allied policies,” and that “there was no starvation program in Germany.”[31] Interestingly, Lipstadt chose not to cite any references for her “denial” in regard to the Morgenthau Plan.[32]
In addition to this discrepancy there are also issues contained within the statements of these Nazi confessors, which history has never managed to iron out. Ohlendorf, in his testimony, stated that the first order to begin killing the Jews was given by Himmler in May 1941 and that his Einsatzgruppen unit began acting upon this in the fields of Eastern Europe. However, Wisliceny claimed to have held the written order in his hand and said that it was dated April 1942. One of them, therefore, has to be wrong. Höss, on the other hand, claimed the order to kill Jews at Auschwitz came sometime in the summer of 1941, although many historians now claim he meant 1942, to tie it in with the Wannsee Conference in January of that year. In other words there is a complete lack of consensus among the three with regard to the most fundamental specifics.
A comment here is recorded as having passed between two NA staff in a letter of 30 June, from Joan McPherson to “Penny”: “The forensic tests have been completed and seem to be somewhat equivocal.”[2]
But of course no one has to grant eyewitness testimony and circumstantial evidence the power to decide the case. After all, a cumulative proof based on inferential speculation is not nearly as convincing as an argument employing direct evidence, and it is curious that an alleged program of industrial extermination should be so lacking in such evidence. Judge Gray, who appeared eager to avoid having to judge historical questions, missed an opportunity to sidestep the thorny gas chamber question by pointing out the dubious nature of a cumulative proof.
That some holocaust historians hesitate to call Maly Trostenets a “death camp” may be in part due to a downward revision of its victim figure in later years, part due to the fact that, as the above-mentioned ARC website article puts it, “there was no overall command structure, as existed in the Aktion Reinhard camps, and thus a less organised pattern of crime.” Yet regardless of the historiographical perspective, Trostenets, with its provisional railway station, assembly square and barracks, stands out as something more complex than alleged mass killing sites such as Babi Yar, which supposedly consisted of little more than mass graves and corpse pyres. Moreover, although the alleged infrastructure of mass murder was provisional, it was reportedly in use for more than two years, a longer period than any of the Reinhardt camps (or Chełmno) was in operation.
The gross imbalance of power between defense and prosecution in the admissibility of evidence, by the way, violates the spirit of the European Convention on Human Rights, in which in Clause 3 of Article 6 it is stated that every defendant is to be guaranteed the right “to obtain the attendance and examination of witnesses on his behalf under the same conditions as witnesses against him.” Oddly, the convention speaks only of witnesses, as though there were no other kinds of evidence.
Though Ms. Lipstadt would most likely vehemently deny it, The Eichmann Trial in an inadvertent way is a contribution to Holocaust revisionism.
[9] Kollerstrom, Nicholas, Breaking the Spell: The Holocaust, Myth and Reality, Uckfeld, Great Britain: Castle Hill Publishers, 2015, p. 66  https://shop.codoh.com/book/breaking-the-spell-en/376/.
"I was in Dachau for 17 months after the war, as a U.S. War Department Attorney, and can state that there was no gas chamber at Dachau. What was shown to visitors and sightseers there and erroneously described as a gas chamber was a crematory. Nor was there a gas chamber in any of the other concentration camps in Germany." (Our Sunday Visitor, June 14, p. 15)
This is the second part of an article series forming a chronicle of Holocaust revisionism from the first years of the Post-War era up to the present. In the first part, we saw that during the first five years following the Second World War, there appeared a number of articles disputing the Six Million figure, while writings skeptical of the gas chamber allegations were rare. In my commentary I offered an explanation for this circumstance, namely that the technical details of the alleged mass murders had been given very little court time at IMT Nuremberg and subsequent trials, and that witness accounts of gas chambers publicly available in the West were few in number. As a result, early revisionist writers would have felt little need to address the issue of the reality of the gas chambers, and naturally also the question whether the alleged gassings were technically feasible or not. It would take a former concentration camp inmate and his courageous confrontation with gas chamber claims he knew to be untrue to put focus on the supposed weapon of mass murder. His name was Paul Rassinier, and the publication of his book Le Mensonge d’Ulysse in 1950 signaled the real beginning of the gas chamber controversy. In this second part of the chronicle, his pioneering revisionist activity and its repercussions will be detailed.
By questioning the Auschwitz story, Irving has, from the Jewish point of view, committed the worst of all sacrileges, because Auschwitz is the heart of the Holocaust story, although, according to Hilberg, it accounts for less than one fifth of the Holocaust victims. The Holocaust lobby will never forgive David Irving this sacrilege. Even if he suddenly claimed that the Germans gassed one million Jews at Majdanek, plus two million at Chelmno, plus three million at Sobibor, plus five million at Belzec, plus ten million at Treblinka, and that they shot twenty million Jews on the Russian front, this would be of no avail: he would continue to be branded a “Holocaust denier”.
Hitler regarded a German-Polish agreement as a highly welcome alternative to a German-Polish war. However, no further negotiations for a German-Polish agreement occurred after the British guarantee to Poland because Józef Beck refused to negotiate. Beck ignored repeated German suggestions for further negotiations because Beck knew that Halifax hoped to accomplish the complete destruction of Germany. Halifax had considered an Anglo-German war inevitable since 1936, and Britain’s anti-German policy was made public with a speech by Neville Chamberlain on March 17, 1939. Halifax discouraged German-Polish negotiations because he was counting on Poland to provide the pretext for a British pre-emptive war against Germany.[22]
No less serious is the fact that M. Pezzetti and his colleagues have covered up all the contradictions—which I have noted above—between Venezia's narrative compared to the canons of Holocaust historiography, all the chronological and architectural inconsistencies.
British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain flew to Hitler’s mountain retreat at Berchtesgaden to discuss the Czech problem directly with Hitler. At their meeting Hitler consented to refrain from military action while Chamberlain would discuss with his cabinet the means of applying the principle of self-determination to the Sudeten Germans. The result was a decision to transfer to Germany areas in which the Sudeten Germans constituted more than 50% of the population. President Beneš of Czechoslovakia reluctantly accepted this proposal.[47]
“It’s outrageous that people are using Holocaust Remembrance Day for partisan reasons or to try and settle scores.” (A. Phillip, Washington Post, 27 February 2017)
A state of abject terror and intimidation exists among the majority of professional American historians whose views accord with the facts on the question of responsibility for the Second World War. The writer of this review has published a brief brochure on “The Struggle against the Historical Blackout,” which endeavors to set forth a few of the salient facts about the attempts to suppress the truth in this matter. Several leading publicists have written the author stating that, on the basis of their personal experience, it is an understatement of the facts. Yet, the majority of the historians to whom this has been sent and are personally known to the author to share his views have feared even to acknowledge the receipt or possession of the brochure. Only a handful have dared to express approval and encouragement. It is no exaggeration to say that the American Smearbund, operating through newspaper columnists, radio commentators, pressure-group intrigue and espionage, and academic pressures and fears, has accomplished about as much in the way of intimidating honest intellectuals in this country as Hitler, Goebbels, Himmler, the Gestapo and the concentration camps were able to do in Nazi Germany.[6]
Dr. Nicholas Kollerstrom writes: “…for any alleged human gas chamber found in a German World War II labour camp let us merely measure cyanide in the walls: if it’s not there, it didn’t happen.”[28]
Jewish theologian Amos Finkelstein expressed this philosophy with the following statement: “The admission that God—or ethical theism—died in Auschwitz because Auschwitz defies all meaning calls, we are told, for a radical change in the most fundamental premises.”[7]
It would have been much more honest to state right away that we don’t know how many deportees were on these trains, hence that it is unknown how many deportees were gassed, if any at all. This is the procedure she applies to transports coming from Yugoslavia, of which we also have merely the range of registration numbers assigned. For the first three instances she doesn’t even mention any unregistered deportees, let alone their presumed fates, while her last entry for Yugoslavia states expressly that it is unknown how many perished in the gas chambers:
For Lipstadt, Holocaust deniers are “antisemites [sic] who have… managed, under the guise of scholarship, to camouflage their hateful ideology.”4  She wrote,
But what about all those witnesses? Well, if we look into witnesses who testified about their experiences with Dr. Mengele right at the end of the war, before memories got corrupted by the Mengele hysteria starting at the late 1970s/early 1980s, there is really only one witness saying anything of substance: the Jewish physician Miklos Nyiszli from Hungary, who for several months of his incarceration at Auschwitz was the assistant of Dr. Mengele, if we are to believe him.
In fact, he was not too late: Cavendish-Bentinck and Allen became in effect the ﬁrst successful Holocaust revisionists. Central Department’s ﬁrst response was: “it seems too late to make substantial changes. But we could telegraph to Washington and Moscow.”
With regard to this reproach, Patrick Desbois keeps calm. "I am not a historian," he says, attributing the whole affair to a "misunderstanding," a term borrowed from Anne-Marie Revcolevschi, general director of the Foundation for the Memory of the Shoah, one of the organizations providing financial support to the Yahad-In Unum association, chaired by Desbois since 2004. She explains: “There is no need to require Father Desbois to be something which he is not. His undertaking is that of a man of the cloth and he has the right to follow his own methodology, which is not identical to that followed by university professors.”
And yet the media continue to trumpet her findings as if of great significance. The Web-based media organization LiveScience, for example, headlined this story on 27 March 2014: “First-ever excavation of Nazi death camp Treblinka reveals horrors.” The opening paragraph reads, “The first-ever archaeological excavations at the Nazi death camp Treblinka have revealed new mass graves, as well as the first physical evidence that this camp held gas chambers, where thousands of Jews died”—all untrue, incidentally. The piece goes on to plug Sturdy Colls’s new documentary Treblinka: Hitler’s Killing Machine. As before, the article provides no concrete information at all. The final section, “Finding the Gas Chamber,” includes this statement:
So we are fortunate now to have an unimpeachable witness in Dr. Thomas Buergenthal. Here we have an authoritative and trustworthy individual who has “devoted his life to international and human rights law,” according to his book cover. He has a Harvard law degree, and is currently serving as the American judge on the UN’s International Court of Justice. Clearly this is a man dedicated to truth, honesty, and openness—and so we are justified in holding his account of Auschwitz to a very high standard. True, he was a 10-year-old Jewish boy at the time (1944). But even so, this is the work of a mature and intelligent adult, and thus we can expect an honest and straightforward account of the happenings at that most infamous camp.
Young Thomas was first housed in the ‘Gypsy camp,’ which had recently been emptied: “all of them—men, women, and children—were murdered shortly before our arrival.” (So he knew about the Gypsies, but nothing on those 400,000 Hungarians?) What evidence he had for this belief, he does not say. He then describes a nighttime incident at the local infirmary, in which the SS are rounding up sick patients: “Of course, the patients knew they were being taken to the gas chambers, and we knew that the SS was thinning out the population of the infirmary to make room for new patients. They would do that every few weeks.” —a strange situation indeed.
The claim that no Nazis denied the crime, which is a common popular belief, needs also to be emphatically addressed. The stark reality is that in one way or another, all of them did. Richard Overy wrote ‘nothing was denied more vehemently in the interrogation rooms at Nuremberg than the persecution of the Jews.’[24] By careful analysis of the trial, a more complete picture emerges. The defendants admitted to anti-Jewish laws, anti-partisan activity (which would have included actions against Jews) and a deportation and resettlement program, but not one of them admitted to first-hand knowledge of an extermination plan or devices of mass execution. A few Nazi witnesses did, mainly via affidavits. Bearing in mind what has to come to light about Allied interrogation methods, we must adjust our views of such witness statements and affidavits appropriately.
It is pointed out also that the aerial photographs taken by the Allied military on 31 May 1944, at the crucial time of presumed extermination, on the day of the arrival at Birkenau of about 15,000 deportees, and after 14 days of intense arrivals (184,000 deportees, averaging 13,000 per day) and with an extermination toll (according to Pressac’s hypothesis) of at least 110,000 homicidally gassed, which would have had to average 7,800 per day, every single day for 14 consecutive days; after all of that, the photographs do not show the slightest evidence of this alleged enormous extermination: No trace of smoke, no trace of pits, crematory or otherwise, burning or not, no sign of dirt extracted from pits, no trace of wood set aside for use in pits, no sign of vehicles or any other type of activity in the crucial zones of the courtyard of Crematory V nor in the earth of Bunker 2, nor in Crematories II and III. These photographs constitute irrefutable proof that the story of extermination of the Hungarian Jews is historically unfounded.[17]
Pennsylvania judge Edward L. Van Roden and Texas Supreme Court Justice Gordon Simpson were members of a three-man commission to investigate the torture and abuse of German defendants in American-run war-crimes trials. Their Simpson Commission report examined the 139 death sentences against Germans which at that time had not been carried out. The cases against the 139 doomed men fell into three groups: Germans accused of involvement in crimes at the Dachau Concentration Camps, in the killing of the crews of downed American warplanes, or in the Malmédy incident.
The implication is that adequate justification for the war had not been seen until the propaganda about mass murder in concentration camps filled that void. As a justification for war, the atrocity stories were most effective if the victims were as diverse as possible, so that all viewers could see themselves as potential victims.
Barrack X was the official name for the crematorium building where that sinister room was located.
Nevertheless, over the course of the interrogations to which they were subjected by the Soviet counterespionage service, the Topf engineers Kurt Prüfer and Karl Schultze, who had designed the 3-muffle oven and the blower, respectively, both declared that the cremation of one single body in one muffle required one hour[211] and that this was precisely the effective capacity shown by other equivalent technical sources[212]. Therefore, the maximum theoretical crematory capacity of the model II/III crematorium was (15 x 24 =) 360 bodies in 24 hours. I say "theoretical", because the crematory ovens could not function continually 24 hours a day, as I will soon explain.
The need to promote the Auschwitz mythos survives in both Jews and Poles. “The collapse of communism had done nothing to resolve the tensions between Poles and Jews over spiritual ownership of the site,” Professors Dwork and van Pelt so rightly noted.[74] By the Polish church’s calculations, 2,647 Polish Roman Catholic Priests died at the camp, thus providing the Polish nation with a story of martyrdom.[75]
The tour of “liberated” concentration camps became a ritual in the occupied Germany of late April and early May. American officers forced local citizens and German POWs to tour the camps. German civilians were paraded against their will in front of the sickening piles of dead bodies found in the camps.
The primary questions raised by Prof. Douglas in repudiating the widely accepted belief that the British military used gas against Arab rebels in the 1920s, have also been raised in regard to the widely held view that 6,000,000 Jews were exterminated – mainly by gassing - by the Hitlerite regime as part of an official policy. Suffice it to mention, when this allegation was subjected to rare challenges in Canadian courts in 1985 and 1988 in the prosecution of Ernst Zündel, many of the primary elements of the ‘Holocaust’, regarded as a matter of unassailable fact by academia, took a hammering under the cross-examination of Zündel’s defence lawyer, Douglas Christie. Dr Robert Faurisson, in summarising the cross-examination of the Prosecution’s expert witness, Raul Hilberg, who declined to return to Toronto for the 1988 trial, stated that Hilberg was ‘forced to admit that for what he called the policy of extermination of the Jews there was neither a plan, nor a central organisation, nor a budget, nor supervision’. The Allies had never carried out a forensic examination of the primary ‘weapons’, the gas chambers, nor had there ever been an autopsy of a corpse that had allegedly been gassed with Zyklon B. No written orders from Hitler or Himmler for the extermination of Jews had ever been found.[12]
But there is yet another incongruity: On the left side one sees the wall of a building, allegedly the wall of the “gas chamber of Belzec”. Logically one would suppose that the picture on the right side shows the interior of this same gas chamber, but as a matter of fact it shows the morgue of the Krematorium I at Auschwitz I (Main Camp), which is still presented as a homicidal gas chamber to the tourists. Publishing this photograph in the context of Belzec without any comment is a fraud and an attempt to deceive the reader. We now know that the objects visible on the photograph have nothing to do with Belzec: They illustrate an event which transpired in Mogilev, Belarus, in September 1941.
From 1979 to 2009, that is, for thirty years, the proponents of the  authorized version of Second World War history have failed in their attempts to reply to the revisionists on the level of history, science, material research and the careful study of documents and testimonies. To compensate for this failure the “Holocaust” worshipers have sought refuge via the reserves of imagination or belief; hence a remarkable propagation of novels, notoriously false “testimonies,” plays, films, ceremonies, pilgrimages. And so it is that “Shoah Business” and the “Holocaust Religion” have flooded the world with their products and their phantasmagoria.
(3) Haimi (2007-present). At this point, an Israeli-led team took over excavation. Continuing previous efforts, they too sought the chambers and the tube. Regarding the all-important chambers, hopes invested in Object E turned out to be in vain: “we can, with a high degree of certainty, state that Object E is not the remains of the gas chambers” (p. 113). Its purpose and function thus remain unknown, and the search for the chambers goes on.
This is another segment from the American propaganda film “Nazi Concentration Camps” which was shown at the Nuremberg Trials.
From 1940 to 1943, Rudolf Höss was the commandant of the infamous Auschwitz Camp. Today’s orthodox narrative has it that during this time, some 500,000 people were killed at Auschwitz in gas chambers. Yet when Höss was captured after the war, he confessed to having killed some 2,500,000 during that time. 40 years later, it was revealed that Höss had been severely tortured by his British interrogators. This is an excerpt of the upcoming study by Carlo Mattogno. It tells the gripping story of Höss’s capture and mistreatments, and presents the texts of the various “confessions” which the British extorted from Höss while in their custody.
I hereby declare under oath that the small 10 cbm. normal gas-chambers, which were used for quick delousing of clothing and simultaneous bodily delousing of the wearers of this clothing, f.i.[129] in barracks, are unsuitable for the delousing of winter clothing for the troops, which is returned from the front in large quantities during the spring and summer months by car, lorry, or truck loads for repair, because this material was continually brought to the collecting stations of the Army Clothing Departments, and had then to be taken in hand. For this purpose I therefore considered the employment of large gassing rooms more practical than the corresponding number of small chambers. The places known to me indeed all only used large rooms for gassing, but did not install typical gas chambers. As instances I would enumerate the clothing department of the Heeresgruppe Nord
SEYSS-INQUART: That he had complete charge of the final solution of the Jewish question as well as other matters dealing therewith.
Sometime very late in the Twentieth Century, Jewish Historian Peter Novick chose to write a book whose title very aptly described its subject, The Holocaust in American Life. Clearly, based on a reading of the book, Novick had grave concerns about the subject. In a word, if I may provide one, Novick disapproved of the uses and interpretations the subject was receiving in America. In some cases, he was concerned about the accuracy of the historical revisionism deployed to serve the various purposes of interested actors; in others (with much overlap among the cases), he was concerned about the effects of these uses, aside from the purposes themselves of participants in the great game of exploiting what had by then quite firmly been emplaced in American consciousness as “The Holocaust.”
The lie of the Nazi gas chambers will go down one day in history as one of the most fabulous impostures of all time. This lie has developed slowly, without plot or conspiracy, and without the general public’s becoming aware of it. If the good people have been so badly taken in, it has in a way been with their consent and cooperation. They have believed, then wanted to believe, then in the end wanted to have others believe and are now legally bound to believe. All this has happened in the same way as when a government wants to launch a peaceful population into a military campaign. Such a government has no need of either plot or conspiracy. Making a show of its sentiments of goodness, it will appeal, thanks to the servility of a “free press”, to notions of rights, of justice and of virtue precisely because it is about to cynically violate rights, justice and virtue. The people will start believing the government, then go along with it and, finally, run with it. Year in, year out, they will find themselves at war, armed from head to foot. And they will readily fight “the evil beast”, against which anything goes, starting with the right to lie and hate, then to plunder, rape, kill by hanging and, supreme reward, the right of their establishment to write the history of it all as it sees fit. Spontaneously they will get into the habit of hating, lying, marching in step. And those who try to make them see reason will no longer be anything but “expert liars, gangsters of history”, diabolical “Nazis” quite simply.
The military ranks of the commission members suggest that they were members of the NKVD, which always closely cooperated with the ESC. As for the document, it is a mixture of technical descriptions and war propaganda. If we are to believe the authors of the report, they had discovered a special device, a fiendish invention of the “German fascists” who wanted to obliterate the traces of their horrendous crimes. Several references are made to the fact that the “machine” could be mounted on a truck trailer and was therefore mobile. Incidentally Soviet propaganda often spoke of transportable crematorium ovens (field crematoria) and mobile gas chambers (“gas vans”).[24] The mobility of these devices was regularly pointed out as evidence for the inexhaustible criminal energy of the “German fascists.”
The demands of this unprecedented tsunami of retributive "justice" were gargantuan: not only was "evidence" required with which to convict each of the accused, evidence ultimately was required with which to convict an entire people of abetting, funding, approving, even ordering a continental program of enslavement, dispossession, and genocide such as had not been seen since the Biblical time of Joshua, when the Jews depopulated their Promised Land antecedent to occupying it.
This postwar German policy is breathtaking in its duplicity. It incorrectly asserts that certain German concentration camps were designed and used for the sole purpose of exterminating Jews when, in fact, none of them was. Moreover, this German law finds a person guilty merely for having served at any camp. People can be found guilty of a crime even when no evidence is presented that they committed a crime. Jewish groups such as the Simon Wiesenthal Center continue prosecuting and convicting other elderly German guards under this line of German legal doctrine to the present day.[36]
As evidence for this interpretation, Roberts quotes Trotsky himself (ironically, from a book of Trotsky's writings edited by Irving Howe):
Every year on 22 April the liberation of Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp is duly commemorated. On this occasion, the press sometimes still mentions the figure of 100,000 victims who allegedly perished or were murdered at this camp. Although Sachsenhausen does not belong to the six “classic” extermination camps (Chelmno, Majdanek, Auschwitz, Belzec, Sobibor, Treblinka), the epithet of a “death camp” which was given to it by Soviet propaganda is sometimes still used. While the Sachsenhausen Memorial Site today contents itself with a death toll of “tens of thousands”, it has never publicly disavowed the propagandistic figure of 100,000 victims. One might speak of a “silent revision”: Certain Allied propaganda figures which arose during or shortly after the war are quietly jettisoned, but this fact is never publicly admitted, nor is there any discussion about the way these wildly exaggerated numbers arose.
I have been asked the question: Why do you think the German euthanasia program happened during World War II, but not the Holocaust? This article will show that the evidence for the German euthanasia program is overwhelming, while the evidence to support the Holocaust story is severely lacking.
Nevertheless, on the one hand, the POWs actually delivered to the camps were very few—at Auschwitz, about 10,000 by the beginning of October 1941—and on the other hand, they were dying en masse from the disastrous living and working conditions—at Auschwitz, according to the Death Books (Totenbuch), 8,320 of them died in only 144 days[53].
A possible difference arises in the matter of motivation. The West Memphis 3 were said to have been motivated by sheer satanic sadism, possibly exacerbated by perverted sex drives (the jury was shown photographs explained by the prosecutor as depicting the results of sexual molestation). The Germans have been adjudged as hating Jews irrationally, possibly as a result of superstition or the conditioning consequent upon generations of said irrational hatred. To suggest that the Germans had any sort of substantive grievance against Jews as a group is a “hanging offense” in most Western countries, and even explaining increasingly harsh treatment of the Jews as the war went against the Germans as a consequence of desperation and deprivation violates laws against “minimizing the crimes of the National Socialist regime,” and is regularly prosecuted in Germany and other countries whenever anyone is caught making public utterances of any such point of view. So, both venues (the court in West Memphis, Arkansas and the war-crimes tribunals) ascribe the crimes to irrational superstition.
“The Dachau gas chamber, however, never functioned because to a certain extent, it seems, of sabotage carried out by the team of prisoners given the job to build it.”
It all sounds neat and tidy, except of course that anyone who has bothered to look into the Holocaust story at all understands that millions were not systematically murdered at Dachau and Auschwitz. No historians of the revisionist or orthodox schools have made this claim for decades. Ultimately it is exactly such distortions and anti-German statements that motivate many who seek to revise the history of the Holocaust in light of the facts. And make no mistake about it, assertions that the Germans committed crimes in exaggerated numbers or with false macabre details amounts to anti-Germanism. Would there not be wailing and gnashing of teeth if someone asserted that even thousands of Palestinians were killed in Israeli-run refugee camps? In today’s hyper-sensitive, some might say Orwellian, society, which has exponentially multiplied the political correctness of the 1990s it is impossible to correct such outrageous claims about Dachau and Auschwitz without first being charged with Holocaust denial and then along with it anti-Semitism. It is demanded that everyone accept all claims about the Holocaust no matter how fantastic or improbable.
This would imply that the Jews sent to Riga were Serbian Jews. Since the surviving Serbian Jews were most likely deported to Transnistria or the Ukraine (cf. 2.4.5.), it seems more plausible that they were in fact Jews from "Greater Croatia" (considering that a Yugoslavian state of which Croatia was part had existed for more than twenty years prior to the war, confusion on this issue would be understandable). If so, they were part of the 4,972 Croatian Jews deported to Auschwitz in the summer of 1942 (cf. 2.4.4.).
So, is the Dachau gas chamber a post-war fraud? Considering that the camp was liberated on April 29 and that the gas chamber was inspected by four members of the U.S. Congress only 3 days later, on May 2nd, this seems to be not enough time for a major fraud.
Both stated that they knew nothing about Gas Chambers, but had been engaged in “delousing” only. It is practically certain that they had been “briefed” in what they should say when questioned, as they both professed ignorance of the simplest things. It was only after having been spoken to sharply that the above was wormed out of them.[24]
As I noted above, even 20,000 Jewish deaths are largely irrelevant to the broader Holocaust narrative.
By this time, people were beginning to talk among themselves about the as-yet-unseen gas chambers. The guide then reminded us that, indeed, we were about to come to the gas chamber itself. “And oh, by the way,” she added, “most of the gassings were at Birkenau. But we’ll see that later.” It was already approaching 12:00 noon.
“One now [in late 1941[4]] began to poison people regularly with Zyklon B and to use for that purpose the Leichenhalle (morgue) of Crematorium I […]. This chamber […] on both sides had a gas-tight door.”
But what does it mean to deny, for example, 6 million Jewish deaths? Is a claim of 5 million “denial”? Hardly, since that figure has been long supported by prominent Holocaust historian Raul Hilberg. What about 4 million? Doubtful; Gerald Reitlinger (1987) argued for 4.2 million Jewish deaths, and no one has called him a denier. 3 million? 1 million? We can see the difficulty here.
The food rations received by inmates in German concentration camps decreased in May 1942 due to shortages caused by the devastated German war economy. These shortages became a famine, which reached its nadir in midsummer 1942. The weights of the clergymen in Dachau dropped substantially due to the inadequate food supply.[13] The death rate in Dachau rose substantially, and the clergy did not escape this general misery.[14]
Reasons 2 and 3 concern only neo-Nazi parties and the like. If they abandon Holocaust denial in order to become more mainstream, revisionism has nothing to lose, as it does not owe them anything in the first place. Reason 4 is unsubstantiated. Reasons 5 and 6 are wishful thinking, and they apply perfectly to the orthodox historians themselves. As for Reason 7, people may age, but ideas do not. Especially when they are backed up by the evidence.
Like Holocaust revisionists ever since, Gibson underwent threats of professional destruction from highly placed Zionist agents very shortly after his first forays into correcting the record on the subject of persecution and massacre of Jews in Central Europe. He did not instigate his inquiry of his own accord. President Woodrow Wilson appointed him America’s first ambassador to the fledgling Polish state in 1919 and sent him off to Warsaw so precipitously that his appointment had not been ratified in the US Senate, as is required for every ambassadorial appointment. Gibson at the time was a respected, seasoned diplomat in the twelfth year of what turned out to be a long and distinguished career in the Foreign Service.
On October 24, Tesch was interrogated by Anton Freud. This second interrogation does exist in German, but in a fragmentary form, severed into 31 numbered chunks. While the interrogation contains some particulars that are of interest in connection with specific points, some of which are cited elsewhere in this paper, the interrogation as a whole offered little new. Mainly, Freud took the opportunity to vent his anger and frustration over the weakness of the evidence the WCIT had gathered, accusing Tesch of engineering a coverup with his employees, and of burning key documents. At the time, there was still a realistic possibility that Tesch would be turned over to the Russians,[46] and Freud took the opportunity to threaten that because of the 4.5 million people he had killed, the Russians would rip out Tesch’s [finger and toe] nails.[47] Faced with Freud’s threats and name-calling, Tesch mostly confined himself to repeating his previous statements.
At this point, however, the problem arises of increasing the camp capacity to 200,000 inmates, which, as we have seen above, was ordered by Himmler as a result of his visit to Auschwitz on 17 and 18 July 1942 and confirmed in the 16 August plan for Birkenau. Schulte, however, instead of resolving this contradiction, restricts himself to take official note of it, writing:
In any case, she took a grotesque misrepresentation of Holocaust revisionism in order to show that it has no scholarly merits, and that revisionists are merely driven by detestable motives. And ever since, the Holocaust orthodoxy has declared victory over revisionism as such.
Erich Fuchs, who supposedly installed the gassing engine and also participated in the first trial gassings, implied in 1963 that the chambers were housed in “a concrete structure.”[39] Historian Schelvis “corrected” Fuchs, for he wrote: “Because he [Fuchs] had put into place so many installations over the course of time, he did not remember that the first gas chambers at Sobibor had been constructed of wood.”[40]
In Version HB-7, which dates from 12 June 1945, the last chapter “Liquidierungsaktionen” ends on page 31. On first inspection, the “very last sentence” about the shots in the neck and the gas chamber seems to be lacking. But in fact, it is still there but in a slightly different place, in the middle of page 31. It is logically unconnected to both the preceding and the following sentences. Finally in Feuerlein’s version (HB-8) the ominous sentence is in the same place as in HB-7, but it now forms its own paragraph.
Also missing from this account is any explanation of the widely reported “recantation” of Irving’s Holocaust views that circulated through the world’s press immediately following his arrest. At the time, the press announced that Irving said, “I made a mistake when I said there were no gas chambers at Auschwitz." Some theorized that Irving was posturing to reduce his sentence to speed his return trip to England; others believed that he had made an honest recantation of earlier spoken views. Either way, this volume sheds no light on the situation.
As Judge Matia wrote, the current case against Demjanjuk is based upon purportedly genuine documents that allegedly show that he served as a guard at Sobibor. At his trial in Israel, however, the late forensic expert Dr. Julius Grant claimed there is good reason to believe that certain documents used against Demjanjuk were forgeries. Matia dismissed at least some of Grant’s testimony in Israel as “not reliable or credible.”[120] Yet, Demjanjuk’s former Israeli attorney, Yoram Sheftl, discussed the evidence that suggests Grant’s claims very well may have been correct.[121]
Danuta Czech’s Auschwitz Chronicle are one of the most important secondary sources on the history of the Auschwitz Camp.[1] The information found in it is a major basis for a large body of literature dealing with the Auschwitz Camp. All the more important it is, then, to verify whether the data contained in it is accurate. The following paper looks into the reliability of data contained in the Chronicle dealing with mass deportations mainly of Jews[2] from all over Europe to Auschwitz in 1942. It compares the data contained in the primary sources quoted by Czech with what Czech herself claims about them.
First of all, Zündel did not “flee” to Canada but emigrated there (from Germany). Rotondi could have easily found this fact even on Wikipedia’s entry dedicated to Ernst Zündel. In fact, it seems unlikely that he did not consult that entry, but as Francesco Bacone used to say: “slander, slander, something will remain.” To fathom the pettiness of Rotondi’s polemics, however, we need to say a few words about Zündel’s life. Ernst Zündel was a talented (and successful) graphic designer who could have comfortably enjoyed the fruits of his profession (even financially), but because of his intellectual generosity, he ended up being persecuted and prosecuted for a good part of his life. In 1984, Sabina Citron, a Jewess who is the founder and spokesman of the Canadian Holocaust Remembrance Association, provoked violent demonstrations against him in Canada. As Prof. Faurisson wrote:[6]
Deborah Lipstadt has recently become newsworthy again as a result of the release of the movie Denial that tells the tale of David Irving’s defamation lawsuit against her and Penguin books.  The movie, which flopped at the box office, purports to tell how David Irving charged Lipstadt with libel for calling him a “Holocaust denier” in her book Denying the Holocaust. There is little doubt who Hollywood intends to be the hero and who the villain in their version of the events.
How would a forger know that Martin Allen was going to look in those particular files, when writing his book, of all the tens of thousands of files in the PRO? (Assuming, as we must, that he is blameless)…. We are beginning to learn why the British press has been silent until now about the documents. Has Ben Fenton been led a final pas de deux by an MI6 cover-up team, sluicing away the evidence of wartime dirty tricks? Were gullible editors warned that the documents might be found to be forged, and ... lo and behold! A piece of clever damage-control by MI6?
The Jews deported from the Netherlands, Belgium and France are of key importance to the issue at hand. Not only are good statistics on the Jewish populations available; the transports from these three countries were carefully recorded, and there further exist detailed transport lists with personal data on the deportees. The documented facts leave very little or no room for “unknown” direct transports of Jews from those countries to the east similar to the 1941-42 Altreich transports to the Baltic States and Belarus. The only such recorded deportation, the 15 May 1944 convoy from Drancy to Kaunas and Tallinn, is easily distinguishable due to the late date (the German withdrawal from the Baltic States began only some months later). In other words: any reliable report of Dutch, Belgian or French being present in the occupied eastern territories from the spring and summer of 1942 onward (and up until May 1944 in the case of the French Jews) is to be regarded as strong evidence for the revisionist transit camp hypothesis.
The second reason why this calculation is impossible is because, even if we were to assume that these people perished by the end of the war – not an unreasonable proposition – there is no way in which they could have been killed and buried in the three Bug river camps as usually described, even with the deus ex machina of the fabled engine exhaust gas chambers. There simply was not enough space, nor time.
“The Holocaust was… an organized program with the goal of wiping out a specific people. Jews did not have to do anything to be perceived as worthy of being murdered… The point was not, as in occupied countries, to get rid of people because they might mount a resistance to Nazism, but to get rid of Jews because they were Jews.”
“After five months of continuous investigations, interrogations and extensive searches, this Section has succeeded in arresting SS Obersturmbannfuehrer HOESS Rudolf Franz Ferdinand, who commanded the notorious AUSCHWITZ Concentration Camp which was built under his supervision and who, in 1943, became chief of Amt 1 of Amtsgruppe D (Inspectorate of Concentration Camps) in the SS Wirtschafts und Verwaltungs Hauptamt. [4]
Heschel refers to "Germany's military and racial goals of domination over Europe."[38] Likewise with her Zionist movement—their racial goal was the domination of land occupied by Palestinian Arabs. With the use of archival evidence, Israeli historians Simha Flapan and ILan Pappe have demonstrated that from its very inception a central plank of Israel's founding ideology was the forcible removal of Palestinian Arabs and the creation of an ethnically homogenous, Jewish supremacist state.[39]
The number of Jews killed in the gas chambers of Auschwitz right after arriving at the camp, hence without any registration, amounted to 105,992 for the entire year of 1942, if we are to take Danuta Czech’s words as printed in her Auschwitz Chronicle at face value. However, she has literally nothing in terms of documentation to back up her claims. Where there is a difference proven by documents between the number of deportees who boarded a train and the number of those who were registered at Auschwitz, she always claims that all of them were killed in the gas chambers (except for those who she speculates left the train in Cosel), although there are plenty of other explanations possible for this numerical difference, be it that more deportees than she assumes detrained at Cosel, that there were other stations along the journey where deportees were taken off, or that for some of the deportees arriving at Auschwitz their journey simply hadn’t come to an end yet, meaning that they were deported farther east, either to other locations of labor deployment or to places of ghettoization.
Yes, unless there is a great deal of external radiant heat flux to keep the pool of fat at a very high temperature, it will not sustain combustion on a flat, non-porous surface. Just like candle wax will only burn on a smooth table top if you continually play a blow torch across it. We have had instances where a very corpulent body has released so much rendered fat that it forms a pool or stream that supports flame in the fire environment that a pool fire existed it is because the external fire was able to heat the liquified fat well past its flash point. (One commercial crematorium was burned down as a result, and others have been damaged!) Charred wood flooring or very porous concrete or lava-stone have been seen to act as a wick, so the nature of the floor is important.
Even more striking is a comparison between the ‘actuals’ and the capacities. With all seven gassing structures together (5 Kremas and 2 bunkers), and assuming a reasonable five gassing cycles per day, the Germans had the capacity to kill at least 65,000 per day. “Monstrous,” we say. Actually, let’s think about this for a moment. A capacity of 65,000 per day works out to nearly 2 million per month. Even in their wildest dreams, the Germans could not have expected to kill 2 million Jews in a month at a single camp. It is inconceivable that they planned and carried out such a process. This fact alone argues strongly against the conventional view of Auschwitz as a dedicated, purpose-built death camp.
There are three points of special interest to be found in our survey of the years 1956-1960. The first is Poliakov's criticism of Reitlinger in 1956. Despite admitting that, with regards to the Jews in Eastern Poland and the Soviet Union "estimates are complicated by population movements during and after the war" as well as a "total absence of reliable statistical data", Poliakov—whose victim figure includes 2 million Jews exterminated at Auschwitz,[8] whereas Reitlinger puts the same figure at between 800,000 and 900,000—staunchly defended "the 'classic' total of 6 million", which had emerged as a dogmatic figure already during the Nuremberg trial.
However, under America’s rules of extradition used against Artukovic, his supporters could not testify to anything that contradicted the evidence put forward by the Yugoslavian Government. According to an OSI brief in the case, Artukovic and his supporters also could not attack the credibility of any of the affidavits in the case, nor could they attack the communist Yugoslavian system of justice…..
But what does Holocaust denial really mean? Begin with the word Holocaust. The Holocaust[3] (spelled with a capital H) refers to the killing of six million Jews by the Nazis during World War II. It is supposed to be the German's "Final Solution" to the Jewish problem. Much of the systematic extermination was to have taken place in concentration camps by shooting, gassing, and burning alive innocent Jewish victims of the Third Reich.
A somewhat greater number were sent to the ghettos in the General Government and from there later on to the “extermination camps”. A total of 65,892 Jews were deported to Auschwitz from Germany, Austria and Theresienstadt during 1942-1943; 35,561 of these were “gassed without registration”, i.e. transited east. A total of 10,933 Jews who had been sent from the Altreich, Ostmark and the Protectorate to the Łodz Ghetto were deported to Chełmno in the first half of 1942 (cf. Section 3.3.1.) and “gassed” there, i.e. transferred east. According to Jules Schelvis, 23,500 German and Austrian Jews were sent to the “pure extermination camp” Sobibór.[7] In Treblinka, 18,004 Jews from Theresienstadt were “gassed”.[8]  Yitzhak Arad further speaks of “tens of thousands” of German and Austrian Jews being sent to Treblinka as well as Bełżec.[9] This means that some 100,000 Jews from the abovementioned territories were deported to the east via transit camps.
[22] Kubica, Helena, “The Crimes of Josef Mengele,” in Gutman, Yisrael and Berenbaum, Michael, Anatomy of the Auschwitz Death Camp, Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press, 1998, p. 324.
Karski’s report of what he witnessed at Belzec contradicted the Belzec propaganda then circulating, and despite being the only available eyewitness account, his story was ignored in the great surge of publicity about the extermination of the Jews at the Reinhardt camps which began just prior to his arrival in London. His accounts posed such a threat to the officially promoted account of Belzec that they were circulated in a crudely altered form meant to reconcile the two. Holocaust historians threatened by the revelations about Belzec contained in Karski’s interviews then used these altered stories to support the thesis that Karski visited Izbica rather than Belzec, but this thesis is impossible on the basis of both geography and chronology. Thanks to the attentiveness of the British censors, we know that Karski talked about his visit to Belzec immediately upon his arrival in London, and it was not a late addition to his story. Because Karski’s reports contained accurate, previously unknown information about the interior layout of the Belzec camp, his story cannot have been fabricated on the basis of other reports of Belzec.
The total of 1,994,500 deportees must in turn be reduced for several reasons. To begin with, a certain smaller percentage of the deportees must have perished en route during the long travel, which often took place under less than humane conditions. Further a total of some thousands of deportees were picked out from the transports to work inside the transit camps, and a number of those inevitably perished there due to various causes. Secondly, it is likely that the Germans in the transit camps subjected Jewish deportees who were dying, carriers of epidemic diseases or mentally ill to “euthanasia” (possibly by lethal injections, possibly by shooting) rather than sent them along to camps and ghettos in the east, where such individuals would pose a liability to the German administration, not to say a health risk. The third reason is that the certainty of the figures presented by the mainstream historians for the year 1943 is questionable, the figures being likely to be slight overestimates. The fourth reason is that some thousands of deportees to Sobibór were transferred to various labor camps in the Lublin district[67]; it is also likely that a smaller number of Jews sent to Treblinka were transferred to the nearby labor camp of the same name (Treblinka I) or to other labor camps in the area.[68] The fifth and final reason is that some transports sent to the transit camps in late 1943 did not continue on from there to the eastern territories. The last six or eight transports to Sobibór in September 1943 arrived there from Minsk in Belarus, reportedly carrying a total of 13,700 people (documentation is lacking).[69] These Jews were likely sent west to be employed as workers either in Sobibór itself, where a plant for the dismantling of captured Soviet ammunition had recently been installed (in the so-called “Lager Nord” part of the camp), or in Trawniki and other labor camps. Taken together, this means that the number of Jews who reached the occupied eastern territories almost certainly amounted to somewhere between 1,800,000 and 1,900,000.
Töben is prone to exaggerate at times. The Age was able to report that he had claimed that the Racial Discrimination Act is a “flawed law, which only benefits Jewish-Zionist-Israeli interests” and that 18C and 18D are in fact a “Holocaust protection law.” In his submission on the exposure draft he had apparently stated that “the ‘Bolt law’ case was used in an attempt to hide this Holocaust matter and to make it a free expression issue…..the sole aim of this section has always been to legally protect… the Holocaust-Shoah narrative.” There is, of course, much more to the Act than that. There are many different persons and groups who have supported it, and (in some cases) benefited from it, apart from Jewish persons and groups. On the other hand, there is no doubt that many Jewish commentators have seen the Act as protecting their special interests, quite apart from its other functions.
Adrian Kanaar, a British military doctor working in a Berlin medical facility, reported on an expellee train from Poland in which 75 had died on the journey due to overcrowding. Although Kanaar had just completed a stint as a medical officer at the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, what he witnessed of the expellees’ plight so distressed him that he declared his willingness to face a court martial if necessary for making the facts known to the press. Kanaar declared that he had not “spent six years in the army to see a tyranny established which is as bad as the Nazis.”[41]
[1] Rudolf, Germar, “Some Technical and Chemical Considerations about the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz and Birkenau,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 337.
That’s all there is to it. Just ignore it. Evidence matters, not name calling.
Venezia later worked at Crematorium III in Birkenau. He said that it took about 10 to 12 minutes for the people to be killed by the gas, and another 20 minutes to exhaust the poison gas. Venezia described bringing the corpses out of the gas chamber: “A terrible, acrid smell filled the room. We couldn’t distinguish between what came from the specific smell of the gas and what came from the smell of the people and the human excrement.”[29]
We have all seen the terrible imagery of dead prisoners taken after concentration camps were liberated. This documentary reviews some of the most memorable of these images, which were taken in camps such as Dachau, Nordhausen and Bergen-Belsen. A closer examination of this imagery we've all been exposed to reveals a very different story than what we were made to believe. Surprisingly, a large number of the bodies we were shown were the direct result of Allied bombing and strafing attacks, rather than victims of a systematically planned Nazi exterimnation policy.
This is not the only manner in which the Holocaust doctrine affects Christianity. There is a way in which it affects world Christianity, and not just European Christendom. A quite popular school of philosophy claims that “God died with Auschwitz.” According to this line of thought, a morally perfect, omnipotent God that deeply loves all mankind would never allow something as horrendous and monstrous as the Holocaust to take place. But the Holocaust did occur. Hence, the God of Judaism and Christianity does not exist.
Himmler’s ambitious projects culminated in his secret order of 5 December 1941 on the ”Employment of Concentration Camp Inmates” transmitted to the head of the Reichssicherheitshauptamt (Central Reich Security Office), SS-Gruppenführer Reinhard Heydrich, to Inspector of Concentration Camps SS-Brigadeführer Richard Glücks, to all camp commandants and to SS-Gruppenführer Oswald Pohl, head of the SS-Hauptamt Verwaltung und Wirtschaft (SS Central Administrative and Economic Office):
A sort of Orwellian process is at play in which 'historians,' unworthy of the title, write their books or give their talks in a way in which they try to stay in sync with the Holocaust story as it continues to evolve or in the way World War Two is portrayed. In a Judeocentric culture, this ensures publication and friendly review of their books, payment of speaking fees, and upward career progression. But sometimes they get behind the curve or are unaware of the latest gymnastic-like twists, turns, and double backward flip-flops that are effected to keep the symbolic figure of Six Million intact.
Deborah Lipstadt ging jedoch zu weit, als sie Trump beschuldigte, mit der Leugnung des Holocaust zu flirten.[9]
Near the village of Maly Trostinets, about six miles from Minsk, the German-Fascist invaders set up a concentration camp[15] conducted by the German Secret Police, in which they kept civilians doomed to death. At the Blagovshchina site, about a mile from the camp, they used to shoot camp inmates and bury their bodies in trenches. In the autumn of 1943, with a view to covering up the traces of their crimes, the Germans started to unearth the pit graves and to exhume and burn the bodies. A resident of the village of Trostinets, Golovach, saw how 'the German hangmen killed men, women, old men and children in Blagovshchina Forest; they put the bodies of murdered people into previously prepared trenches... They packed them down with bulldozers, then placed another layer of bodies on top and packed them down again. In the autumn of 1943 the Germans opened the trenches in Blagovshchina and started burning the exhumed bodies. They mobilized all the carts from neighboring villages to bring up firewood for the purpose.'
The preemptive nature of Germany’s invasion of Denmark and Norway has been acknowledged by some establishment historians. For example, historian David Cesarani, who said he did not believe in freedom of speech regarding the so-called Holocaust,[13] wrote:
The new 400-page edition by Nine-Banded Books included a new preface, and new chapters including “Revisiting the Bomb Shelter Thesis: A Postscript to ‘Bomb Shelters in Birkenau,’” and “The Holocaust in Retrospect: A Historical and Revisionist Assessment.” For a moment it seemed that Crowell was back. A prototype for a website was drawn up, but it was really not to be. The final words that Crowell would write on the subject were these:
Most of what was written about the Holocaust story was based on eyewitness testimony from claimed Jewish survivors of the German camps. The historical blackout forces sought to intimidate German eyewitnesses from writing about their observations in the German concentration camps. When Thies Christophersen published The Auschwitz Lie in 1973, he was charged with “popular incitement,” “contempt against the state,” and defamation of the Jews. Christophersen spent a year in prison even though the charge of popular incitement was eventually dropped. All Christophersen had done was to write about his experiences while he was working in Auschwitz in 1944.[12]
In a paraphrase of Dr. Robert Faurisson’s Holocaust revisionist argument, Vidal-Naquet’s translator states the dilemma in the form of a question: “Moreover, since numerous eyewitness reports [about the “homicidal gas chambers”] had already been discredited, on what basis could anyone accept any such testimony?”[26]
Looks like somebody built themselves a gas chamber, doesn’t it, only it wasn’t the Germans!
Another school of thought believes that education in the form of indoctrination is a preferable response to Holocaust denial, yet in effect both groups seek to rely on the arbitrary power of the State to enforce compliance of belief in the mainstream version of the Holocaust. Both groups evidently support the notion that the end justifies the means. In contradistinction to these opinions, many civil libertarians favor the more civilized process of unrestricted investigative research and open debate over government sponsored programs of indoctrination.
Public knowledge of the German euthanasia program was widespread in Germany. This public knowledge led to growing criticism from churches, the judiciary, and the state bureaucracy. Church leaders, and especially Bishop Clemens August Graf von Galen, made it internationally known that National-Socialist Germany was killing handicapped children and adults on an unprecedented scale. In a sermon on Aug. 3, 1941, Galen openly attacked the hypocrisy and the economic rationale for killing handicapped people. Instead of punishing Galen, Hitler ordered a stop to the euthanasia program on Aug. 24, 1941.[26]
Secondly, we are more than a little surprised to see that, according to the Institute of Jewish Affairs, not a single Belgian or Dutch Jew and only 2000 French Jews had fallen victim to "organized murder" up until August 1943—this despite that Holocaust historiography has it that 15,700 Belgian Jews were gassed in Auschwitz, some 70,000 Dutch Jews in Auschwitz and Sobibór, and 32,245 French Jews in the same two camps, making for a total of approximately 118,000 alleged victims.
The landscape of Ukraine, village after village, east to west, was transforming itself under my eyes into an ocean of exterminations. Whether in Bahkir in west Ukraine, or in Nikolayev in east Ukraine . . . The horrors of the Holocaust were not necessarily exactly the same from one place to another, but they did unfortunately cover the whole country without exceptions.
In the propaganda film ”Todeslager Sachsenhausen“ (“Death Camp Sachsenhausen”), which was produced around the beginning of summer 1946, the commentary claims that ”of approximately 200,000 inmates, about 100,000 were murdered or tortured to death“. Significantly, the figure of 100,000 victims was postulated more than a year before the Sachsenhausen trial that took place in Berlin in October 1947; during this trial this figure was for the first time ”confirmed“ by the report of an ”expert commission“ with highly dubious credentials. (We will discuss this topic in a later study.) The commission was headed by the forensic expert Prof. Viktor Ilyitch Prosorovski who had already helped the ESC by giving false testimony in the cases of Katyn (USSR-54) and Kharkov (USSR-43). So as early as 1945 somebody in Moscow had decided that 100,000 people had died at Sachsenhausen – a completely arbitrarily figure supported neither by the investigation of the Soviet commission in May/June 1945 nor by the various drafts of the ESC. In the above-mentioned ”Brown Portfolio“ we encounter this figure for the first time; it appears in the very first sentence of a letter of ESC member I. P. Traynin to foreign minister Molotov [77]:
Through the chamber of physicians [Ärztekammer], we applied for permission to distribute white bread and milk. Instead of polluted drinking water, I took care to distribute drinks such as coffee and tea. I ordered the organization of field kitchens for working inmates, due to the great distances between the worksites and their living quarters and commissaries, which meant that otherwise the workers would get no hot food all day. When the construction of field kitchens was impracticable, I had hot food delivered to the work sites by vehicle. I requested permission to allow recovering inmates to gather wild vegetables, medicinal herbs. At the same time, I wanted Jewish women confined by the camp administration to be able to move about in the open. I requested rest for physically weakened inmates, even the construction of entire rest departments.[10]
Here we should also recall Botvinnik's revelation that the ESC had reached their victim figure for the Blagovshchina site simply by multiplying the estimated total grave volume by an apparently arbitrary density of corpses per cubic meter (cf. §2.9.). The ESC claimed in their September 1944 report that 150,000 corpses had been buried at the Blagovshchina site, which means a density of (150,000 ÷ 25,460 =) 5.89 corpses per cubic meter. Using instead the number of victims claimed by Gerlach for the active period of the Blagovshchina site (some 33,000) one gets a density of 1.3 corpses per cubic meter. Experts on forensic archeology point out that this method of estimating the number of dead in a mass grave is extremely unreliable, as the distribution of the body sizes may vary greatly from one group to another.[13]
Ten years would elapse before the recommendations suggested by the IJA gathered enough momentum to enlist the support of British legislators. In 1996, the British Labour Party responded with unconcealed enthusiasm to Dr. Roth’s earlier recommendations and announced that if they were elected, they would make Holocaust denial a criminal offense in Great Britain. The London Jewish Chronicle candidly reported that the Labour Party’s decision came about as a direct result of a “lengthy campaign” conducted by Jewish groups such as the Board of Deputies and the Holocaust Education Trust.[9] In spite of these solemn assurances by the British Labour Party, passage and enforcement of the proposed law would ultimately prove to be legally problematic.
Take the single worst month: June 1944. Here we have some 250,000 gassings occurring in 30 days, or an average of 8,300 per day. With four Kremas and a bunker at their disposal, the Germans would have had no problems at all. It was, after all, only about 12% of their total capacity. In fact, tiny Bunker #2, with its single 90 sq. meter chamber, could have handled (900 x 5 =) 4,500 daily, or the bulk of the load. A single additional chamber, in any one other Krema, would have sufficed even for the mind-boggling Hungarian operation.
The plan of the hospital camp in Bauabschitt III of Birkenau was definitively abandoned on 23 September 1944, as a result of Jothann’s letter to the Bauinspektion der Waffen-SS und Polizei “Schlesien” with the subject “Construction of 12 barracks for the seriously ill in construction sector III-BW 12b” (Errichtung von 12 Baracken für Schwerkranke im BA.III-BW 12b) dated 6 December 1944:
All this is not to mean that no corpses at all were burnt in the open air at Birkenau. It is certainly true that the many victims (between 50,000 and 100,000 depending on whose book you read) of typhoid fever and other diseases that were counted before the Birkenau crematoria became operational had to be disposed of in this way, to say nothing of people who were shot or who died of ill-treatment during the period. Most of these burnings seem to have taken place in the autumn of 1942 outside the western limit of the camp.
Heschel's deceptive claims and hypocritical racial double standards go unchallenged, at least in part, because in the contemporary world the Jewish-Zionist power elite wields enormous power, and they can brand any intellectual who deviates from their line with the dreaded "neo-Nazi" and "anti-Semite" labels. In regard to the "Holocaust" and other issues that involve National Socialism, the Jewish-Zionist power elite has enforced ideological conformity throughout much of the Western world. For the best interests of Christian nations and world peace, it is our duty, as Revisionists, to break down this Iron Curtain over the Western World.
A: I did not present any affidavits to this Tribunal. I only —I have only told of them what I had done, or the work that I had done, in the war crimes office.
[16] Rudolf, Germar, “Some Technical and Chemical Considerations about the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz and Birkenau,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 369.
At the heart of his problem is Auschwitz. He has never contested any of the other aspects of the Holocaust story. He has always maintained that the Germans shot a huge number of Jews on the Eastern front (in the eighth chapter of Treblinka – Extermination Camp or Transit camp? he could find compelling evidence that the reports of the Einsatzgruppen, which allegedly prove such a gargantuan slaughter are highly suspect because they are contradicted by other German documents and not corroborated by forensic evidence). He has never disputed the alleged mass murders at the Reinhardt camps, or Majdanek. He has explicitly admitted the existence of the “gas vans” allegedly used at Chelmno and in the occupied Soviet territories. But he has so often and so vociferously defended the revisionist position on Auschwitz that his pride forbids him to back down in this one question; he is at best willing to concede the possibility that some gassings took place at Auschwitz on a limited scale.
In respect to the latter-mentioned agency, the IJPR offers a rather formulaic assessment of Holocaust denial, opining:
Another Jewess, Lore Schwartz, describes Theresienstadt and Auschwitz as transport camps:
The Waffen SS was largely composed of non-Germanic volunteers. Most historians continue to neglect the motivations of these men and women who fought for Hitler as opposed to the Allies. I felt that this was historically unacceptable given that every side feels that it alone is justified. Historians have generally described this interracial phenomenon as “inexplicable” when there is more than sufficient evidence to the contrary. Not only was Hitler ambivalent about his racial and ethnic views, but so too were many prominent Nazis, such as Franz Wimmer-Lamquet and Alfred Rosenberg. I have always maintained that unless the penchant for tolerance and acceptance of the “other” is present, no tolerance or acceptance of the “other” will occur in a genuine way. Many Nazis became great friends with non-Germans. Hitler and Himmler both went out of their way to accommodate their Arab-Semitic volunteers. Hitler met with the Grand Mufti, but failed to meet with the “Aryan” leader of the United States, Franklin Roosevelt. From this example, we may conclude that Hitler was willing to contradict his own Weltanschauung in order to achieve what he needed to achieve politically and militarily. Interestingly, this general attitude of ambivalence was not limited to the military sphere. It extended into the realm of Third Reich society both before and during the war.
Regarding the extermination part, that is, the death camps, Cesarani offers a very brief discussion of Chelmno, followed by Belzec with some more details and Sobibor a few pages later. A longer discussion is devoted on Treblinka while Auschwitz gets the largest share with several pages and quite a lot of details. But for the above, Cesarani has absolutely nothing new to contribute, relying mainly on other historians (Van Pelt, Piper, Arad, Browning, Longerich, etc) and occasionally calling out some witnesses, like the not so credible Rudolf Reder on Belzec or the even more incredible Filip Müller on Auschwitz. He also calls Rudolf Vrba and Alfred Wetzler:
We learn Auschwitz was better than Birkenau because of its concrete buildings and gardens. Not to mention hygiene. At the entrance to one of the prison blocks, Elie is made to wait his turn to go into the showers. From what we know about how the Germans used showers, we think this is the end, but no, not at all. It is Elie himself who tells us the showers were a compulsory formality at the entrance “to all these camps.” Even when passing from one to the other several times a day, e.g., from Birkenau to Auschwitz, from Auschwitz to Birkenau, you had to go through the baths each time. Yet, pleasant as that seems, all is not wine and roses. It is in fact a pretext for complaint. And this is because after the nice, hot shower, they were forced to shiver in the night air. But the case Elie makes for this doesn’t stack up. Just a short while ago, Elie and his comrades were marched over in the Spring sunshine, the march took only a few moments or half hour at the most, whereafter they queued at the prison block to get a shower and now it is night. One of two things must be true: they waited a long time for their shower or they spent a long time in the shower, or possibly both. Either way, forget the old adage, for here time passes quickly when you’re not having fun! Their clothes they had to leave behind in “the other block,” and since this is the first block they are supposedly entering once reaching Auschwitz, one must imagine they walked naked all the way from Birkenau! But I think instead there was an undressing process at Auschwitz Elie has failed to mention. What he does mention is that time has passed even more quickly and it is now nearly midnight before he and his comrades are ordered to run, not to get clothes, but to go to bed.
And it is David Irving and the Holocaust revisionists who have in their partisan urgency revealed a Holocaust dogma masquerading as history. We needn't loathe them. In fact, we ought to help them, for who fails to benefit when the layers of legend and myth encrusting our history are peeled away?
According to a registration carried out by the German occupational authorities on 10 January 1941, there lived 140,000 full Jews liable to deportation on the territory of the Netherlands, whereof 80,000 in the city of Amsterdam.[19] From July 1941 the Dutch Jews had to have their identification papers stamped with the letter “J” for “Jood” (Jew), and from 29 April 1942 they were forced to wear a yellow Star of David with the inscription “Jood” on their outer clothing.[20] On July 17, 1942 transports of Dutch Jews bound for Auschwitz began departing from the collection camp of Westerbork. Raul Hilberg states that 105,000 Jews were deported from the Netherlands and presents the following breakdown according to the points of arrival[21]:
In the nine years of its existence, Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp (including all satellite camps and outstations) claimed the lives of about 22,000 male prisoners. In view of the fact that approximately 140,000 male deportees were sent (and registered) to this camp, this means that 15.7% of the prisoners perished. Compared to prison camps of other states, other wars and other times, such a percentage is unfortunately nothing extraordinary.
In The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes, Samuel Crowell writes:
Tesch was interrogated by Captain Gerald Draper and Captain Frank on September 26. The interrogation is available only in English. He was told that five million people had been gassed at Auschwitz, and replied that this was news to him - he had first heard of homicidal gassings in the press and radio. He did not believe that the gas he had supplied had been used for mass killing. He saw little sense in the description he was given of fake showers being used as gas chambers, and absolutely denied Sehm’s story about the travel report. While in many cases he was deferential to the interrogators on matters outside his direct experience (“If you say so, gentlemen, perhaps it is true; you may have better evidence”), he was very definite about the travel report (“It does not exist”). Sehm, he said, had always been a “book of seven seals” to him, and may have borne a grudge against him because of their past differences regarding pay and because of Sehm’s dismissal from the firm.[18] The interrogators, however, told him that Sehm’s statement could be confirmed, because Sehm’s friend Frahm (mentioned in Sehm’s letter of August 24) had also seen the travel report:
Rudolf has documented with expert literature on the chemistry of building materials that the cement mortars and concretes used in the alleged homicidal gas chambers are noticeably alkaline for many weeks, months, or even years. These walls would have been very much inclined to accumulate cyanide salts and to form Prussian Blue, even more so than the lime plaster of the disinfestation chambers.[20]
Nonetheless, Debating the Holocaust: A New Look at Both Sides is a new kind of revisionism. Because he is careful to appear nonpartisan, Dalton doesn't make any new discoveries or devise any new theories. What he does, however, is synthesize a wide range of mainstream and revisionist scholarship in an attempt to patch together the most important challenges that revisionism has posed to conventional Holocaust opinion. But because his work is a synthesis, he has to do more than recite the strongest work of Graf, Mattogno, Rudolf, and Faurisson (his favorite revisionists); he must also present the cases of Pressac, van Pelt, and Hilberg (his favorite Holocausters). Fortunately, Dalton knows both sides well, and so his text is especially valuable to non-experts who are interested in a straightforward presentation of how mainstream Holocaustiography measures up to its revisionist response.
A first analysis of the prisoner statistics of Sachsenhausen was conducted by a team of former inmates (Walter Engemann, Gustav Schöning and Hellmut Bock), who performed this task in May/June 1945 at the behest of the Soviet special commission. The Engemann team examined the daily roll call reports (which were almost completely available) and other authentic SS files, and documented their results in a report, which we will call here the “Engemann Protocol”[68]. More recently the Sachsenhausen statistics were again analyzed by C. Mattogno[69] and K. Schwensen [70].
Auschwitz Concentration Camp, as mentioned above, had requested a successor to their current on-duty garrison physician in August 1942. This successor, who took over in his official capacity on 6 September 1942, was Dr. Eduard Wirths. In his notes, Wirths left a vivid report on conditions in Auschwitz at that time:[7]
Judicial absolutism reigns also as to the interpretation of documents and material evidence. If in the taking of evidence a document is introduced that clearly proves Fact A, yet the court writes in the verdict that the document refutes Fact A, then the court is right. It has final disposition in the interpretation of the evidence produced. In the case of a verdict of a District Court, there is no possibility whatever of contestation.
Today, every serious mainstream historian acknowledges this wasn’t a gas chamber with fake shower heads, it was a real working shower room designed to keep prisoners alive and free of disease.
Prematurely retired, Stäglich worked for several years on an extensive study of the evidence supposedly substantiating systematic murder by gassing at Auschwitz. The book resulting from his study, Der Auschwitz Mythos, disputes the various “proofs” offered for the Auschwitz myth and is a damning analysis of the postwar trials staged by the Allies. The publication of Der Auschwitz Mythos in West Germany in 1979 caused the defenders of the Holocaust story to censor Stäglich’s book. Nevertheless, all but seven of the 10,000 copies of the first edition of Der Auschwitz Mythos had been sold by the time the book was ordered seized by the German government.[14]
Not until Shn-5 and Shn-6 does the execution method ”shooting in the neck” appear in connection with the killing of Soviet POWs. In accordance with the Ziereis confession and inmate testimonies, these drafts claim that the killings were carried out in the ”shooting hut“ mentioned under b) which was allegedly demolished in 1942. (We remember that the new crematorium, whether it had shooting rooms or not, did not yet exist at the time of the “Russenaktion”). Hence the amazing fact that the shooting rooms (neck-shooting facility) described by the Soviet experts in their technical report and shown on the Soviet blueprint are not mentioned in any of the different drafts of the ESC report about Sachsenhausen!
On 1 March, career criminal and former Auschwitz inmate Adolf Rögner files charges against the former SS-Oberscharführer Wilhelm Boger, an event which would lead to the Frankfurt Auschwitz trial. Elie Wiesel's Auschwitz memoirs, La Nuit (Night), are published by Editions de Minuit in Paris. Auschwitz commandant Rudolf Höss's memoirs, Kommandant in Auschwitz, are published in West Germany, edited by Martin Broszat. On 9 October, Pius XII, alleged to have been "Hitler's Pope", dies. The Zentralstelle zur Verfolgung nationalsozialistischer Gewaltverbrechen (Central Office for the resolution of National-Socialist crimes) is established in Ludwigsburg, West Germany.
The Americans had made the former concentration camp Dachau into an internment camp where they had imprisoned accused German war criminals. The camp was also the site of a War Crimes Commission[22] and the site of the Dachau Trials. About January 16th, 1946, Pinter arrived in Dachau. The first of the concentration camp trials, the Dachau main trial, had been finished just four weeks before (November 15 – December 13,1945)\. Following these were the Mauthausen Main Trial (March 29 – May 13,1946) and the Malmedy Trial (May 16 – July 16, 1946). Pinter had nothing to do with either of them.
The existence of "cremation pits" in the spring-summer of 1944 in the area of "Bunker 2" is one of the recurrent themes of Auschwitz "memory literature". L. Cohen—to remain with our eyewitnesses, informs us that "the pit" (die Grube) was "a good three meters deep"[106], while according to S. Chasan "the pit was very deep, I believe about four meters"[107].
[22] Mattogno, Carlo, The Bunkers of Auschwitz: Black Propaganda versus History, Chicago: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2004, p. 130. See http://vho.org/dl/ENG/tboa.pdf.
The reason why the transports of French and Dutch Jews to Belarus have hitherto been "overlooked" by the Holocaust historians is of course that they do not fit with the official historiography on the deportations of these groups of Jews. Christian Gerlach, however, is unaware—or pretends to be unaware—of the implications of the testimonies he refers to, and he completely refrains from discussing them in a broader context.
Kahn wisely sidesteps the issue of whether the United States ought to adopt laws proscribing Holocaust denial, but it is clear that he has no solid objections to upholding the status quo in those countries that do.[33]
“The taking of evidence shall be extended to all witnesses and experts who were summoned and who appeared, as well as to the other evidence produced […]”
Further to that point, is that even if one starts with the idea that Nazi racism was predominately anti-Semitic in its character, it does not necessarily follow that anti-Semitism alone is a substantial enough motive for a system of industrialized genocide, the likes of which had never before been seen. Overy states ‘if the interrogation transcripts reveal anything, it is the unwritten assumption on the part of the interrogators that anti-Semitic sentiment is a sufficient explanation for mass murder.’ He goes on to say that, ‘the current debate on the causes of the Holocaust revolves about the validity of this assumption.’[36] However he doesn’t go as far as to point out that it is clearly a ridiculous assumption. Anti-Semitic feeling had bubbled up in numerous countries over the centuries and many had indulged in pogroms for one reason or another, but none of them as yet had seen fit to try to kill off the entire Jewish race or to build bizarre, hellish, extermination centers, elements of which defy possibility. Why should the Germans be any different? The obvious answer, which Overy seems unwilling to state, is that like most other aspects of the trial, the interrogators were starting with a conclusion and then working backwards. The possibility that the camps were not extermination centers using homicidal gas chambers, but normal prison and labor camps in which either prevailing or imposed conditions led to mass starvation and epidemics was not, for the purposes of prosecution, a valid one. This would explain their confusion over camps like Belsen and Dachau, which originally were thought to have been ‘death camps’ and later downgraded. As far as the Allies were concerned the Nazis were genocidal from the beginning and that was that.
After escaping temporarily from three more ‘selection’ events, he was finally corralled with 30 or 40 other men destined for the chambers. “I admitted to myself that there was no way out and that I would die in a few hours.” Soon an SS truck arrived. “At first the truck moved in the general direction of the crematoriums, but then it veered off slightly and entered the nearby Krankenlager, or hospital camp…” (p. 79). Why were they not gassed? “The SS had apparently concluded that it would be a waste of resources to take our small group to the gas chambers,” but instead held them “until they had put together a larger group.” Time passed; no “larger group” materialized. “I began to like my life in the hospital camp. Maybe the SS forgot us, I thought.” The only downside of hospital life was the late-night awakenings from “screams and pleas…as people were being herded into the [nearby] gas chambers.”
Jones emphasized the point that “Holocaust revisionists promote almost unparalleled hatred of Jews, who they claim have wrongly received sympathy, understanding or, in their view, or even worse – support.”[7]
The refusal to feed the Germans—or allow anyone else to feed them—gave rise to extremely negative feelings among Germans toward the Allies. Carl Zuckmayer reported conversations he overheard in bread lines in the American Zone: “Yes, Hitler was bad, our war was wrong, but now they are doing the same wrong to us, they are all the same, there is no difference, they want to enslave Germany in exactly the same way as Hitler wanted to enslave the Poles, now we are the Jews, the “inferior race”, they are letting us starve intentionally, can’t you see that is their plan, they take away all our sources of income and let us die slowly, the gas chambers worked quicker…”[36]
To put the Holocaust beyond the realm of rational critique, to make it sinful and immoral to debunk it, is tantamount to elevating it to the status of a sacred dogma. Yet, the traditional Holocaust story is a human interpretation of history created by human historians, and is propagated by human institutions. There is nothing “sacred” about the Holocaust ideology, as it was not in any way sanctioned by the Supreme Being. God did not hand down the doctrine of the Holocaust to Moses on Mt. Sinai along with the Ten Commandments. The orthodox version of the Holocaust is only as good as the evidence that supports it. One could cogently argue that to endow this humanly created doctrine with an aura of holy, religious sacredness is, according to Christian morality, to engage in idolatry. How so?
Under pressure from Jewish groups and their Gentile supporters, the supreme Catholic hierarchy condemned Bishop Williamson’s beliefs, and he eventually offered an ambiguous apology. On January 26, the Vatican proclaimed any rejection of the traditional Holocaust story violates the teachings of the Catholic Church.[2] In March, the Vatican’s envoy to Israel asserted that “Holocaust deniers” could not be considered Catholic.[3] Another Vatican spokesman even claimed it is a “sin” to reject the orthodox version of the Jewish experience during WWII.[4]
Despite this resounding omission of probably the most-powerful group advocating censorship anywhere in the world, the book actually scores worthwhile points in the contest to defend freedom of speech, including at least one that, if not necessarily original, nonetheless so counters superficially logical thinking that it is well worth repeating: the presence within a single society of differing, even opposite-minded groups, including large majorities and small minorities does not impose a need for censorship to prevent people from offending, insulting, or even threatening any of these groups. To the contrary, such diversity in a polity increases the need for freedom of expression, if only to prevent groups from contending with each other for power over the processes that enact and enforce the laws that impose censorship. The Charlie Hebdo massacre of early this year in the land of the Loi Gayssot criminalizing “Holocaust denial” is an object example of this process. The mechanism is available to, and used by,the Jews of France, while access to it is denied the Muslims of France. This logically brings on the AK-47s. The book here reviewed was originally written in 2010, so the incident is not mentioned, as it surely would have been had the event occurred before its writing.
For more than thirty years, historians have been aware of once-secret memoranda by senior British intelligence ofﬁcial Victor Cavendish-Bentinck in which he casts doubt on the alleged use of homicidal gas chambers by National Socialist Germany.[1] Writing to Whitehall colleagues at the end of August 1943, Cavendish-Bentinck used dismissive language which today in most European countries would undoubtedly see him prosecuted for “Holocaust denial”.
“A case of indisposition with slight symptoms of poisoning by hydrocyanic gas which occured today makes it necessary to warn all those participating in gassings and all other SS members that in particular on opening fumigated rooms, SS members without mask must keep a distance of 15 meters from the chamber for at least five hours. In addition, particular attention should be paid to the wind direction.”
As the curtain closes on the first act, Cole finds himself in a funk, “limping back to square one.” When a fashion-mad actress-girlfriend leaves him spiraling in debt, he spends some time “pining and whining” before eventually moving on to some shady but apparently lucrative Internet business ventures where he cynically leverages his by-then-encyclopedic knowledge of Holocaust history to play “both sides” for what financial gain could be had. Having for practical reasons already adopted his new identity as “David Stein,” he invents other pseudonyms – “one to sell books and videos to Holocaust studies departments around the world, and one to sell books and videos to revisionists.” And the vultures, from both sides, take the bait.
2.  Once the gas chamber had been emptied, a squad of fitters or bricklayers would have fixed at the end of the chamber, in the southeast corner a steel duct of about 20 cm diameter and 2 meters high or built a brick chimney of about the same dimensions connecting with or protecting one of the lower air extraction orifices and enabling it to take in warm contaminated air from above. The time taken for the ‘repair’ would not have been longer than an afternoon. Such an incident would not have interrupted the ‘operation’ of the Krematorium. As the documents we possess at present make no mention of such work we can assume for the moment that the case of the ‘3000’ never occurred, the number of victims from a convoy always being less than this.
The book supplies in fact no "truth" which was previously unknown and only repeats in a confused and vague manner some "truths" which were already known. It provides no major contribution, or even anything new, to our knowledge of Auschwitz, on the contrary, it systematically evades all historically relevant questions.
As anti-Holocaust revisionist historian Herf makes clear, one of the important characteristics of mass propaganda is that it appeals to stark contrasts between good and evil.[95] The Holocaust doctrine fits the bill perfectly. He wrote: "Reports of the Final Solution [the Nazi attempt to exterminate the Jews during WWII] underscored the stark moral dichotomy between Nazi Germany and its allies, on the one hand, and the United Nations [Americans, British, Soviets, etc.,] on the other. They reinforced the Allies’ conviction that this was a war between freedom and tyranny, good and evil, civilization and barbarism."[96]
In March, a British steamship, Falaba, carrying munitions and passengers, was torpedoed, resulting in the death of one American, among others. The ensuing note to Berlin entrenched Wilson's preposterous doctrine – that the United States had the right and duty to protect Americans sailing on ships flying a belligerent flag. Later, John Bassett Moore, for over 30 years professor of international law at Columbia, long-time member of the Hague Tribunal, and, after the war, a judge at the International Court of Justice, stated of this and of an equally absurd Wilsonian principle:
Five years later, after Demjanjuk’s acquittal by the Israeli Court of Appeal, Melbourne Jewish columnist Robert Manne published an important opinion piece in The Age on 29th September 1993 entitled ‘Justice and John Demjanjuk”. A number of his comments are worth recalling. For instance, reflecting on the first trial, he noted how difficult it had been for any Israeli court to provide a fair trial and explained: ‘For many Jews in Israel and abroad, anyone who assisted with the defence of Demjanjuk was a Nazi collaborator or a traitor. In the course of the trial a Holocaust survivor actually threw acid in the face of Demjanjuk’s tenacious defence counsel, Yoram Sheftel.’
Lord Halifax now began to take control of British policy toward Germany. Halifax informed Chamberlain that his speech of March 15, 1939 was unacceptable. President Roosevelt was also highly critical of Chamberlain’s speech. Two days later, on March 17, 1939, Chamberlain revealed the first sign of a major shift in British policy toward Germany. In a speech in his home city of Birmingham, Chamberlain charged Hitler with “a flagrant breach of personal faith.” Chamberlain presented himself as the victim of German duplicity, and stated that he would never be able to believe Hitler again. Chamberlain asked rhetorically if this was a step by Hitler to attempt to dominate the world by force.[20]
Then they came for the Holocaust revisionists, and I did not speak out—for I was not a Holocaust revisionist.
Patrick Desbois should not be confused with Robin Des Bois (the French name for Robin Hood). Rather, he is an anti-Robin Hood who is out to rob poor Europeans to give to rich Jewish organizations. On p. 100 he recounts presenting his research to the Claims Conference (the Conference on Jewish Material Claims against Germany) which, as the book explains, was founded in 1951 in New York “to represent and offer reparations for the victims and the Jewish survivors of the Shoah.” The Conference happens to be one of Yahad - In Unum’s sponsors. However, lest we misunderstand, Desbois takes the bull by the horns on p. 166:
There are some who operate under the illusion that the sole reason the Holocaust mythology survives and flourishes is because of Jewish-Zionist power and influence. Although Israel and the International Jewish-Zionist power elite are the most important forces behind the Holocaust ideology, there are also non-Jewish groups that promote it and benefit by it, and thus help to insure its continued success. These non-Jewish groups have largely been overlooked.
Among the transports that were processed in this way, there were the transports from Theresienstadt; in this Czech village the Germans had ghettoized a large number of old Jews from various origins (German, Austrian, etc.); the provisional Jewish policy of the Germans was then to move the Jews “farther east” until they were able to relocate them permanently outside Europe (to Madagascar, for example) and they had deported a large number of them to the Ukraine, Belarus and the Baltic countries via Auschwitz, Sobibor, Belzec and Treblinka. Thus, 10 convoys finally left Theresienstadt for Treblinka in 1942. In one of them was Siegmund Rothstein from Berlin, whose name is found in the Yad Vashem database.
Dr. Sigmund Rascher conducted high-altitude experiments at Dachau beginning February 22, 1942, and ending around the beginning of July 1942.[10] The experiments were performed in order to know what happened to air crews after the destruction of their pressurized cabins at very high altitudes, when airmen would be subjected to a quick drop in pressure and lack of oxygen. Rascher’s experiments were performed to investigate various possible life-saving methods. To this end, a low-pressure chamber was set up at Dachau to observe the reactions of human beings thrown out at extreme altitudes, and to investigate ways of rescuing them.[11] The victims were locked in the chamber, and the pressure in the chamber was then lowered to a level corresponding to very high altitudes. The pressure could be very quickly altered, allowing Rascher to simulate the conditions which would be experienced by a pilot freefalling from altitude without oxygen.
On the 24th of September, 2007, one of Bush’s Axes of Evil, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, of Iran, arrived at Columbia University in New York to speak to the students and faculty. His visit provoked a full day of intense protest from massed crowds who believed that giving a platform to the man who denied the Holocaust and said ‘Israel should be wiped off the map’ was to provide him with credibility. It should be pointed out here that these views, falsely attributed to Ahmadinejad by the media, result more from alarmist editing and misquotation than a genuine attempt to engage with his statements. Ahmadinejad’s repeated line on the Holocaust is that it should not be regarded as immune to examination and re-interpretation, which is an eminently reasonable standpoint. He has never actually denied it. The Arab news network, Al Jazeera, quoted the Iranian President as saying:
The introduction of the proper noun "Holocaust" signals a change in how stories of atrocities during the Second World War would be handled. The religious connotation of the word helps in associating the event specifically with Jews, given that the Jews are, at least in some degree, a religious group, and in a greater degree are perceived that way. With the promulgation of the proper noun Holocaust, Jews in effect claimed a special status as victims during the Second World War.
Until the end of communism in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, the Holocaust ideology was continually used by communist rulers to attain their ends. Revisionist historian Charles Weber noted that the Holocaust material had proved to be a useful ideological weapon in a number of Russian-Soviet propaganda efforts, including the Nuremberg trials. It enabled the Soviet Union to cover up, hide and obliterate by contrast the awareness of the many crimes the Soviet Union perpetrated against other nations and peoples, such as the Katyn massacre in Poland. Even the anti-Holocaust revisionist historian Jeffrey Herf admits that the Soviets ran concentration camps in which death was brought about by exposure to the elements or slow starvation.[58] The Holocaust ideology was very useful in masking the ongoing brutality of the Soviets.
The figure of 6 million Jews murdered by Nazi Germany was widely regarded as a proven fact by the end of the IMT. Sir Hartley Shawcross stated in his closing address that “more than 6 million” Jews were killed by the Germans, and that “…murder [was] conducted like some mass production industry in the gas chambers and the ovens of Auschwitz, Dachau, Treblinka, Buchenwald, Mauthausen, Majdanek and Oranienburg.”[20]
In fact, the media frequently and irresponsibly refers to historical revisionists as “neo-Nazis.” On September 9, 2003, a Belgian court convicted Siegfried Verbeke of minimizing the Holocaust after distributing pamphlets. Stripped of his civil rights for 10 years and sentenced to one-year suspended prison term, Verbeke, a 63-year-old Belgian of German extraction, remained unrepentant and confirmed to the press that he stuck “one hundred percent” to his views. “Three centuries ago people were burned at the stake, so a one year prison sentence is not that bad,” he asserted.
Since 2004, Father Patrick Desbois and the Yahad-In Unum research group found numerous Ukrainian witnesses who had seen the massacres or who had been called up [for temporary labor service] during the execution of the Jews. The testimonies gathered by the Yahad, systematically compared with written documentation, have enabled the discovery of more than five hundred previously forgotten mass graves and the collection of material evidence relating to the genocide (weapons, cartridge cases, ammunition). It has finally become possible to preserve and respect the burial of the victims […] (emphasis added).[7]
No kidding. Well, in the words of Carlos Porter, all one needs to do in order to endanger the Holocaust a bit further, or perhaps even drive it into extinction, is to get the Nuremberg Trial transcript and read some of it. There one will discover “compelling evidence” such as the following:
”Detainees from 34 nations were interned at the concentration camp – Russians, Poles, Englishmen, Frenchmen, Belgians, Dutchmen, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks, Italians, Greeks, Latvians and others.”
“Goodson, who earned R360,000 last year for his services to the bank, more than R70,000 for each of the five meetings he attended, holds contentious views that include admiring the economic policies pursued by Hitler in Nazi Germany, a belief that international bankers financed and manipulated the war against Hitler because they saw his model of state capitalism as a threat to their usurious ways, and that the Holocaust was a fiction invented to extract vast amounts of compensation from the defeated Germans.
Only a single sample from a delousing chamber (DC) wall was taken by Fred Leuchter, at Birkenau, even though it was quite a substantial one, but this was more than compensated by Rudolf’s quite extensive sampling inside and out of two delousing chambers in the same camp. Indeed we may at once divide Rudolf’s 16 DC samples into those from indoor walls versus those from outdoor walls of the same buildings:
The testimonial evidence can here be divided into two sub-categories, indirect sources in the form of news reports, statements from exile governments, underground publications etc. where the origin of the information is usually not made explicit, and direct information in the form of eyewitness statements. We will begin our survey with the former category.
The last known direct transport from the west to Riga was the abovementioned transport from Theresienstadt on 20 August 1942. The 22nd Osttransport is stated to have departed from Berlin on 26 October 1942 (the number of deportees is alternatively given as 801 or 808).[132] In preserved German documents no destination is listed for this transport.[133] The next Osttransport from Berlin, with 1,021 deportees, departed for Auschwitz on 24 November 1942. If we take a look at the succeeding Berlin transports things get even more curious. Raul Hilberg notes that
Troubled by such motions by the defense in trials against historical dissidents, the German justice system went so far as to declare in the mid-1990s that filing a motion to introduce evidence is in itself already a crime, if the motion’s aim is to prove that the punishable opinions of the defendant are correct. For with such an act, a defense attorney would publicly commit the very same crime in the courtroom for which his client has been indicted. These decisions, too, with which defense attorneys were sentenced merely for filing motions to introduce evidence, were approved by the Federal Supreme Court, since such motions were evidently inadmissible, because they violated standing law.[27]
The chairman tried to get Mr. Pearce to agree that legislation against racism is necessary in a multicultural society; but Pearce would not be drawn: “We do not see that the conduct which this bill will proscribe threatens social or public order…..That is because there is no evidence that we have seen that the conduct which this legislation seeks to proscribe does threaten public and social order.”[87]
George Stevens's Nazi Concentration Camps portrays horrors suffered by prisoners at twelve locations. Only in regard to Ohrdruf (a satellite camp of Buchenwald) are Jews mentioned. About Ohrdruf the narrator says:
And what of the “silver bullet” that the Museum hoped to find? In folklore, a silver bullet is often the only weapon that is effective against a werewolf or other monsters.[10] There can be little doubt that even a shred of evidence would have been used as a “silver bullet” targeted directly at the heart of Holocaust revisionists and those who question the gas chamber story, the foundation upon which the USHMM is built.
Imagine how this would appear to the tired, frightened, sick incoming people: Friends and family members are separated from them, sent off to ‘where the gas chambers are,’ never to return. Separately they hear (true) stories of dead bodies being buried and/or burned; the smoke and the smell pervade the camp. What are they to conclude? It is entirely understandable—but entirely wrong.
“All we knew was that corpses were completely burned; nothing specific, however, was known about the methods of mass killing. People said that the newly arrived victims were told to undress under the pretext of [that they were] going to take a bath, which actually was a barracks with an electrified floor. Some claimed that this barracks was in fact a gas chamber. After the killing, the floor slid out and the corpses were thrown into pits, which doubled as furnaces.”[23]
What we are seeing is that the Holocaust as a force in politics and society is being marginalized and weakened through the arrogance and immoderation of its own Jewish proponents.
In January 2000, British Home Office Minister Michael O’Brien informed reporters that the British government rejected plans to enact Holocaust denial legislation supported by Prime Minister Tony Blair. Jewish groups reacted with dismay and dissatisfaction, complaining that the country’s “anti-racism” laws failed to result in a sufficient number of prosecutions and convictions.[7]
The ID card also came into question and even popular columnist Pat Buchanan labeled it a forgery. The German newspaper Der Spiegel noted that a Bavarian handwriting expert discovered that official stamps on the card had been faked, the German used was full of mistakes, and punctuation was missing or had been added by hand. Moreover, the number on the ID card, 1393, was issued before Demjanjuk was even captured. During the recent trial in Germany it was revealed that a previously classified report by the FBI argued that the ID card was “quite likely fabricated” by the Soviets. Demjanjuk defenders had argued for years that the Justice department was withholding evidence. Apparently they were correct.
Such statements by former detainees are made to blacken their former oppressors. This also goes for the statement made by Georg G., a former Funktionshäftling (Kapo) who, also in 1965, claimed to have seen how “the detainees were herded into the gas chamber made of stone and were gassed there”.
Sherlock Holmes was right in his comments quoted as the epigraph to this essay. Eighteen year-old James McCarthy looked just as clearly guilty from the initial evidence as Charles Zentai looks from the evidence of the People’s Court of Budapest in 1947-48; but close investigation revealed that McCarthy was completely innocent. Perhaps Zentai is too. And it is far too late to arrange a fair trial for him. Let us hope that Australia eventually sets him free, preferring not to risk unjust punishment of an innocent man rather than gain the plaudits of a powerful minority lobby and associated benefits.
Count Three charged the defendants with slavery and murder of the enslaved persons. The defense of necessity allowed 18 of the defendants to be held not guilty of this charge. However, five of the I.G. Farben defendants were convicted of count three. The court stated: “[T]he use of concentration-camp labor and forced foreign workers at Auschwitz with the initiative displayed by the officials of Farben in the procurement and utilization of such labor is a crime against humanity and, to the extent that non-German nationals were involved, also a war crime, to which the slave-labor program of the Reich will not warrant the defense of necessity.”[17]
We whose interest is attracted to the monstrous global edifice known as The Holocaust discover, on inquiry, that torture, truly understood, underpins the entire edifice, as indeed torture underpins many of the lesser edifices with which humankind has been fooled, misled, impoverished, deceived, incited, gulled, led into war, and sent to their destruction ever since a shaman claimed he could exorcise an evil spirit from a sick child.
From the revisionist point of view, the significance of the issue relating to the capacity of the air-blowers remains intact, that after the alleged transformation of Morgue #1 of Crematorium II into a gas chamber working with hydrogen cyanide (Zyklon B), the capacity of both air-blowers, the intake and exhaust, still conformed to a normal morgue. The number of air exchanges planned, approx. 9.5 per hour, was in fact the one prescribed by the technical manuals of the time, like the one by engineer Wilhelm Heepke:[59]
Putting the shoe on the other foot makes the answer to that question obvious: If I were able to show that Dr. Lipstadt or any of several other of her mainstream colleagues has committed the same unethical offenses, would that allow me to dismiss all the arguments which mainstream Holocaust research has produced since the end of World War II? Of course not.
It all started with the trials staged in the 1980s against Canadian revisionist of German origin Ernst Zündel. In 1981, Zündel – who died a few months ago, in August 2017 – had republished Richard Harwood’s revisionist brochure: Did Six Million Really Die?. During a first trial, in 1985, Zündel was sentenced to fifteen months in prison. The verdict was overturned in 1987. A new trial began in January 1988. Zündel instructed his lawyer’s assistant Barbara Kulaszka to contact the chief wardens of several U.S. prisons in an attempt to convince them to come to court and to explain to the jury the operation of a homicidal gas chamber. Bill Armontrout, head warden of the Jefferson City (Missouri) penitentiary agreed to come and testify that no one in the United States knew more about how gas chambers worked than the Boston technician Fred Leuchter. Subsequently, the French professor Dr. Robert Faurisson, who at the time was Zündel’s defense advisor, went to visit Leuchter. Leuchter agreed to come to Toronto to examine the documentation on the Nazi “gas chambers” collected by Zündel and Faurisson. Then, as Faurisson writes:[1]
In size and scope, the Nakba and the Holocaust cannot be compared; even though both ethnic cleansing and genocide are crimes against humanity, the latter is far greater than the former. Nevertheless, both are crimes and the ethnic cleansing, subjugation, depopulation, and dehumanization of the Palestinian people for over 60 years cannot be ignored simply because the Nazi genocide killed millions of Jews and maimed millions more.
Remark: This statement by a Polish official means, in plain language: we have lied, we are lying and, until further notice, we shall continue to lie. In 2005 I asked E. Conan whether the Auschwitz Museum authorities had issued a denial or raised any protest against the statement that he, in 1995, had ascribed to K. Oleksy. His answer was that there had been neither denial nor protest. In 1996, this imposture and others as well concerning the Auschwitz-I camp were denounced by two Jewish authors, Robert Jan van Pelt and Deborah Dwork, in a work they produced together: Auschwitz, 1270 to the Present, Yale University Press, 443 p. Here is a sampling of their words in that regard: “postwar obfuscation”, “additions”, “deletions”, “suppression”, “reconstruction”, “largely a postwar reconstruction” (p. 363), “reconstructed”, “usurpation”, “re-created”, “four hatched openings in the roof, as if for pouring Zyklon B into the gas chamber below, were installed [after the war]” (p. 364), “ falsified”, “inexact”, “misinformation”, “inappropriate” (p. 367), “falsifying” (p. 369). In 2001 the fallacious character of this Potemkin village gas chamber was also acknowledged in a French booklet accompanying two CD-Roms entitled Le Négationnisme; written by Jean-Marc Turine and Valérie Igounet, it was prefaced by Simone Veil (Radio France-INA, Vincennes, Frémeaux & Associés).
At the beginning of May 1943 the green light was given for a vast program of “Special Measures for the Improvement of Hygienic Installations” (Sondermassnahmen für die Verbesserung der hygienischen Einrichtungen) of Birkenau camp, which, in the documents, is called interchangeably “Sofortprogramm” (Immediate Program), “Sondermassnahme”, (Special Measure), “Sonderprogramm” (Special Program), “Sonderbaumassnahmen” (Special Construction Measures) and “Sonderaktion” (Special Action)[117]. The related written order was transmitted by Kammler to the commandant of Auschwitz on 14 May[118]. From its inception, this program for the improvement of the hygienic installations of Birkenau camp also included the crematoria[119]. The related documents set forth the idea of installing “showers in the undressing room of Crematorium III” (Brausen im Auskleideraum des Krematoriums III)[120], which constituted a “plan for [the] production of hot water for approximately 100 showers” (Projekt für Warmwasserbereitung für ca. 100 Brausen)[121]. A report dated 16 May states explicitly:
Berben also wrote that 304 members of the Polish clergy were exterminated in various ways, including “liquidated inside the camp, in the showers or in the Bunker.”[24] Berben did not explain how Polish priests could have been exterminated in the showers at Dachau. Historians and former Dachau inmates generally agree that there were no functioning gas chambers inside Dachau.[25] Berben in his own book even stated that “the Dachau gas-chamber was never operated.”[26]
Whereas Anglo-American war propaganda had portrayed Christianity as an object of oppression by the evil Nazis, the Holocaust miniseries represents Christianity, specifically the Christian legend that the Jews were responsible for the crucifixion of Jesus, as an important cause of anti-Jewish persecution. The implication is that Christians in general, not just Germans, have this proclivity for mass-murdering Jews. Some Christians complained that the show was anti-Christian.
Deborah Lipstadt, Professorin für Holocaust-Studien an der Emory University in Atlanta, schrieb im Jahr 2011 […] ‘diese Nummer ist schlicht ungenau, ja erfunden […].’”
European Union Justice Commissioner Viviane Reding availed herself of the rich trove of the Nazi legacy in comparing the expulsions of Roma with the wartime deportation of Jews by Nazi-puppet Vichy France to concentration camps, neglecting to note that these deportations were not of French Jews but of Jewish refugees from Germany and countries further east that the Germans at that time occupied. In this, the deportations bore a closer resemblance to the Twenty-First-Century campaign, but their intended destinations were explicitly German-run concentration camps, rather than the mere repatriation intended by the Germans in 1938 and the French in 2010. Reding's analogy is apt, but the 1938 instance compares more closely.
“In 1984, the victims of Dr. Mengele’s experiments, who had lived in the children’s camp, formed the organisation Children of Auschwitz Nazi Deadly Lab Experiment Survivors (CANDLES ), with the self-appointed task of documenting Mengele’s crimes, informing the world, capturing the “Angel of Death” and dragging him before a court”[31]
Evidence in favor of this view is provided by Holocaust expert Christopher Browning. One of Browning’s key pieces of evidence for alleged mass exterminations at Belzec is the post- war testimony of former SS Sergeant Josef Oberhauser. Buried in a footnote Browning provides us with a reason to be skeptical of Oberhauser’s testimony. He accuses Oberhauser of falsifying the dates of events in order to create an adequate defense at the “Belzec trial” in Germany in the 1960s. Specifically, he writes that Oberhauser is guilty of “clearly falsifying chronology to give the impression that until August 1942—i.e., for the period for which he was on trial—only a small number of test gassings were being carried out in a single gas chamber capable of holding 100 people.”[109]
But what it would really do is to cast me into the briar patch with Norman Finkelstein, Marc Ellis, Paul Eisen, Henry Herskovitz, Gilad Atzmon, Rich Siegel, and Hedy Epstein (a Holocaust survivor), all friends of mine and all anti-Zionists.
There is no record of a large, homicidal cyanide gas chamber ever existing either prior to or after World War Two. There is a widespread agreement, however, that they did so exist and extensively function in Poland during the war. Indeed one can be jailed in ten European nations for publicly expressing doubt of such a thing. We are not concerned to debate the technical details of such large homicidal cyanide gas chambers (HGC). Our concern lies solely in defining the category of HGC in terms of what brickwork was sampled by Leuchter and then by Rudolf.
Like the assumption that Ford could have funded Hitler because they had similar views about Jews, Pool also makes the same assumption about Montagu Norman, Governor of the Bank of England, Schacht’s friend, because Norman was also antagonistic towards Jews (and the French). He deplored the economic chaos wrought on Germany by the Versailles diktat and the adverse impact that was having on world trade. On that score, he could have funded the Nazi party, but there is no evidence for it. Pool’s book is useful however insofar as he shows, despite himself, that the Nazi party was not a tool of big business.
Of course, this also guarantees that the graves will never again be opened to perform a forensic-medical expert examination intended to ascertain whom the skeletons belonged to, when they died, and the cause of death.
In the interview with Stefano Lorenzetto, Venezia, in reply to the question "How many years was it before you returned to Auschwitz?", he said:
On page 1 Lipstadt opines that “Holocaust denial is” an “antisemitic ideology” rather than “responsible historiography.” It is a “purely ideological exercise,” and the revisionists merely appear to be “engaged in a genuine scholarly debate when, of course, they are not” (p. 2). Of course.
Photo 17: Alleged Krema 3 gas chamber.
Holocaust revisionist writings cannot even be read in court in modern-day Germany. Cox writes:
Photo 14: Delousing chamber.
“Some confidential news was received yesterday that out of the entire transport of workers from Metal I [a plant in Łódż], some 800 people, only 50 arrived in Szamotuly. The rest remained in Auschwitz. Many of the ‘privileged’ went with that transport. Were they also kept in that camp about which such horror stories are told?”[141]
In 1983, the anti-Nazi book Legions of Death by Rupert Butler stated that Jewish Sgt. Bernard Clarke and other British officers tortured Rudolf Höss into making his confession. The torture of Höss was notably brutal. Neither Bernard Clarke nor Rupert Butler finds anything wrong or immoral in the torture of Höss. Neither of them seems to appreciate the implications of their accounts. Bernard Clarke and Rupert Butler prove that Höss’s testimony at Nuremberg was obtained by torture, and is therefore not credible evidence in establishing a program of German genocide against European Jewry.[17]
Freda Utley was an important figure in the post-war opposition to U.S. genocide against Germany. She contended in The High Cost of Vengeance that the USA came to Germany as a conquering “master race,” affirming rather than repudiating the doctrine of “might makes right.”[33] As one would expect, Lipstadt condemns Utley as among the “relativists and German apologists” who cited Allied war crimes as mitigating the Third Reich. Moreover, Utley became “one of the most vocal” of Senator Joseph McCarthy’s supporters, using tactics of Nazi apologists in condemning the mass transfer of German refugees from the Soviet-occupied East,[34] which caused many deaths of German displaced persons. Again, a background of this “Nazi apologist” and McCarthyite is not given. She had come from a socialist family in England, graduated from the London School of Economics, and remained a lifelong friend of pacifist guru and iconic liberal philosopher Bertrand Russell. She had become a Communist, married a Soviet citizen and had lived in the USSR. Regnery stated that she always took the side of the underdog, and that in the immediate post-war world the collective underdog was decidedly the Germans.[35] Moreover, like Gollancz, Utley had drawn from her experiences, having stayed in Germany in 1948. At the time industries were still being dismantled, denazification entailed guilt by association, and arbitrary arrests were still frequent. She interviewed Germans and occupiers, and perused the documentation. Her book was scathingly attacked by a Germanophobe, Delbert Clark, writing for the Sunday New York Times.[36]
I managed to get another important point made: “No distinction has been made yet between the phrase ‘denial of the Holocaust’ and between revisionist historians of responsible and intellectual caliber who are not ‘denying the Holocaust’ but who are arguing that it has been exaggerated – something which any historian should be perfectly free to say about any particular historical event. Using the phrase ‘denial of the Holocaust’ constantly evades facing up to this question that it is not a matter of denial. It is a matter of questioning the extent of.”[78]
If the alleged mass murder of six million Jews by the Germans is the greatest and most horrible crime ever committed in the whole history of the world, then the mass killing of hundreds of thousands of German women and children by British government bombs pales in comparison, and is obliterated by contrast. The Holocaust ideology performed its services well for Winston Churchill.
More likely, of course, is that the three camps were delousing facilities and transit camps. They would have been built to temporarily house and disinfest Jews and other forced-labor conscripts who were on their way to resettlement camps or ghettos in the captured Soviet territory further east. The “gas chambers” cited by witnesses would have been either real showers, or delousing chambers for clothing and linens. Only a small number of incidental deaths would be expected, and thus no need to plan for high-volume body disposal—though the actual number may well have exceeded expectations.
While the Birkenau crematoria were the largest in the Auschwitz area, they were not the first to be operated there, as has already been mentioned. An existing building at the main camp had been equipped with Topf double-muffle ovens and a morgue which is said to have been used for the first gassings. Robert J. van Pelt quotes the testimony of the SS-man Pery Broad on pp. 224ff of his book. Broad claims to have observed from his office in the building of the Political Department the preparations for such actions. He even goes so far as to state what happened inside the building and what the eventual victims said to one another, but this is no doubt hearsay.
In conclusion, if there is a fact to which we revisionists ought to call the attention of the layman, is it not this tacit agreement of all French or foreign judicial systems never to demand, for 70 years, any criminological inspection of the murder weapon, that is, an unprecedented weapon that enabled the killing, in industrial proportions, of millions of victims? With one exception, that of Struthof, for which, as if by intent, a forensic examination produced a completely negative finding: no gas chambers, no gassed.
Höss had, and knew he had, far more at stake than his own flayed and bleeding skin. His arrest itself had been enabled by the capture and incarceration of his wife and three children; these remained pawns in the control of the occupying victors to do with as might best serve to elicit the desired testimony from the trembling, fear- and pain-wracked shell of a man who knew not what awaited him or his beloved family by the next dawn. That he retained the use of his formidable powers of imagination and creativity is at today’s remove an object of deserved wonderment. And he rewarded his “king” bounteously, with lurid and detailed accounts of the slaughter of millions of his hapless charges in the hell-pit of Auschwitz that he had erected and operated with hideous efficiency at the behest of Heinrich Himmler, the Reichsführer-SS himself. Scheherazade has been toppled from her perch enjoyed until then as the world’s most-creative, if not most-desperate spinner of tall tales to preserve her very life.
The letter describes the systematic killing of prisoners at Birkenau:
At the end of 1939, some 280,000 Jews lived in France; in Paris alone there were more than 200,000.[34] The first French transport bound for Auschwitz left on 27 March 1942.[35] By March 1943, the number of Jews deported from France had reached 49,906.[36] A total of 75,000 Jews were deported from France; whereof at least two-thirds were foreign-born people who did not possess French citizenship.[37] Hilberg lists the destinations of the deportees as follows[38]:
Books like this are praised to the skies and offered all the time as evidence of the Holocaust. And yet a simple reading of them reveals passages that would make any historian run away. The single fact that in 2015 the soap story is still offered as eyewitness testimony without even an editor’s comment, proves the total bankruptcy of the Holocaust story.
From 1984 to 1986, a series of dramatic events occurred, especially that brought about in France by Henri Roques’s thesis on the “confessions” of SS man Kurt Gerstein, would show how vigorous revisionism was. In 1986 it was within the very committee on the history of the Second World War, directly linked to the Prime Minister's Office, that a new affair erupted. That body comprised a commission on the history of the deportation headed by a prestigious historian, Michel de Boüard. A former member of the resistance who had been interned in Mauthausen, a Roman Catholic, a Communist Party member (from 1942 to 1960) and dean of letters at the University of Caen (Normandy), he had testified to the existence of a gas chamber in the Mauthausen camp. But he was to take up the cause of both Henri Roques and the latter’s thesis panel, attacked from all sides. He went so far as to state that the dossier of the official history of the wartime deportations was “rotten” due to “a huge amount of made-up stories, inaccuracies stubbornly repeated – particularly where numbers are concerned –, amalgamations and generalizations.” Alluding to studies by the revisionists, he added that there were “on the other side, very carefully done critical studies demonstrating the inanity of those exaggerations.” Yes, he had formerly mentioned the existence of a gas chamber at Mauthausen; he admitted he was wrong: “It came in the package!” he confided during a meeting between the two of us that he himself had wished to have. He intended to write a book aimed at warning historians against the official history’s lies, but he fell ill and died on April 28, 1989 without having been able to complete the work.
No orthodox historian has yet succeeded in explaining why these children were not gassed immediately upon arrival. In reality, it is not so surprising, because on 16 January 1945, in just the men’s camp at Birkenau, there were 770 “Jugendliche bis 18. Jhr.” (youths aged up to 18 years), in addition to 400 “Invaliden” (invalids)![37] When the Soviets arrived, there were still 205 children at Birkenau, from just a few months up to 15 years of age, many of them twins.[38]
Northeast of the concentration camp[?], on the territory of the Drozdy Settlement, there was discovered a ditch 400 yards long, two and a half yards wide and two and a half yards deep. In the course of excavations conducted in several places in the ditch to a depth of 18 inches there were found remnants of bodies (skulls, bones) and decayed clothes. Investigation revealed that about 10,000 Soviet citizens shot by the Germans had been buried in this ditch.
Although lacking the scope and magnitude of the vaunted German project that figured so intimately in World War II, Gibson’s Holocaust was otherwise of striking similarity to the later events that won the sobriquet, except for omitting then-just-defeated Germany from the roster of villains.
Although Arad does not state any sources, it is clear that he is basing his description on the verdict from the 1964-1965 Treblinka trial in Düsseldorf, which state the very same dimensions; according to the same verdict, each chamber in the old building could hold 200 to 350 people, while the corresponding figure for the new building was 400 to 700 victims.[17]
“View of THE door of THE gas chamber in Dachau.”[29]
Profits continued to accrue for the “International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism” when in March 1997, Gabriel Andreas, the editor of a periodical entitled “Rot un Wiss,” [Red and White], received a suspended six-month jail sentence and a fine of $5,200 to be paid to the “League against Racism’ for publishing articles which questioned the existence of homicidal gas chambers at Struthof, a former concentration camp situated near the French-German border. Despite the fact that mainstream historians do not claim that six million Jews were gassed at Struthof, and that Andreas neither claimed nor implied that the “Holocaust” never occurred, he was nevertheless found guilty of “denying the Holocaust.”[24]
In this instance, “Abwehr” is an inapposite term to use in this entry seeing as how Die Abwehr was the name of Germany’s military intelligence service at the time. We are expected to accept without question that no other term was appropriate in this entry and context. It just strikes me as odd. And again, this particular entry is attributed to none other than Police President W. Schade, a man murdered not by Nazis but, as I will address again later, by Poles in a postwar concentration camp in 1945.[16] After the war, when Capt. Radek attempted to properly investigate what did take place at the station that night, if anything, his efforts were thwarted in interesting ways.[17] It seems obvious who was silencing whom here.
“The only ‘scientific’ attempt to refute Frederick A. Leuchter’s most intriguing thesis turns out to be one of the biggest scientific frauds of the 20th century. How desperate must they be—those who try to defend the established version of the Holocaust, i.e., the alleged systematic extermination of Jews in homicidal ‘gas chambers’, that they resort to such obviously fraudulent methods?”
The scale of this resettlement and the conditions in which it takes place are without precedent in history. No one seeing its horrors firsthand can doubt that it is a crime against humanity for which history will exact a terrible retribution.
“MGK [Mattogno, Graf, and Kues] never significantly discuss the hundreds of transports that travelled westwards to the death camps, whilst they argue that these deportees were all sent eastwards. This led several groups of Jews (i.e. from Galicia, Romania, Bialystok, Ostland, etc) to head in the completely wrong direction from the eastern territories in 1942 and 1943, something illogical from the perspective of a resettlement program. Indeed, a reasonable estimate would be that at least 500,000 Jews were transported westward to the extermination camps during these years.”[36]
In the plans of Birkenau and in the official documentation—beginning with the explanatory reports (Erläuterungsberichte)[125] and the cost estimates (Kostenanschläge or Kostenvoranschläge)[126] of the camp and of the "turnover" (Übergabeverhandlung) of these installations[127], the Birkenau crematoria were normally referred to as II, III, IV and V; in a few documents, the designation I, II, III and IV appears. But Venezia never mentions this double numbering system, which was obviously unknown to him. If he had really been employed in the Sonderkommando, he would have known the correct number of the crematorium in which he worked. The fact that he alternates between one number and the other indiscriminately shows that his account is based on what he has read, instead of on personal experience.
There is plenty of evidence, too, that corruption was involved in the further campaign against Demjanjuk, which resulted in his cruel deportation to Germany in his late eighties. As for the charges on which he was  then found guilty, they are thoroughly preposterous. Moreover, revisionist historians have mounted a strong case that Sobibor was not, in fact, a death camp at all, but a transit camp. The continuing persecution of these historians in more than a dozen countries merely adds to the conviction that there is something very rotten indeed in contemporary Western European political orders.
The Dissentient Judgment of R.B. Pal is available on line in PDF form at http://www.sdh-fact.com/CL02_1/65_S4.pdf. Published in book form in The Tokyo Judgment: The International Military Tribunal for the Far East (IMTFE) 29 April 1946 – 12 November 1948. Edited by B. V. A. Röling and C. F. Rüter. Amsterdam: University Press Amsterdam, 1977. Also published separately in Calcutta and Japan. This volume is currently out of print and nearly impossible to find.
attacks on the credibility of survivors’ testimony are standard elements of Holocaust denial.
It was then considered pornographic, even though now it is considered to be a great work of literature. Since then, Bradley has been a strong advocate for free speech and intellectual freedom. He travels North America speaking to college students about the persecution of Holocaust revisionists.
Are you aware of the extent to which the Crucifixion of Christ has been replaced by Auschwitz as the central ontological event of western history? Do you wish to be complicit in the disastrous effects that continue to accrue from this derogation of Jesus and deification of man?
[2] Höss’s Commandant of Auschwitz (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1959), written while he was in jail, is a pillar of today’s regnant Holocaust narrative.
In April 2009 Töben was found guilty of contempt of court for having breached a court order. He unreservedly apologized for this, but was nevertheless jailed for three months. Töben has now become the highest-profile Holocaust revisionist in Australia. The media have widely reported his imprisonment in 1998 in Mannheim Prison in Germany for having “defamed the dead,” his attendance at President Ahmadinejad’s conference on the Holocaust in Iran in 2006, and the unsuccessful attempt by Germany to extradite him from the UK on a European arrest warrant in 2008.
Today revisionist historians who refute or even dare to question the established orthodoxy of the official Holocaust story find themselves persecuted and imprisoned throughout the world. The persecution has not prevented revisionists from writing, publishing, and speaking on these matters, but has largely driven them "underground" or turned them into "catacomb revisionists." Many newcomers to revisionism, for fear of backlash and persecution, have taken to the use of pseudonyms in their writing. In some cases, even established revisionists have utilized this age-old tactic to avoid both governmental and non-governmental repression for having expressed their viewpoint with regard to this one historical period.
Had the Soviets and the Poles found but 10% of these ashes, teeth and bone fragments, they would have had a very serious case against the Germans. They would have summoned an international commission – just as the Germans had done after discovering the mass graves at Katyn – and presented the results of the forensic investigations at the Nuremberg trial.
What Taylor neglected to state in his 1954 article was that in 1953 Dr. Nuamann had been released by a Federal Court on the grounds that “no suspicion of criminal intent” had been proven against him, despite British High Commissioner Sir Ivone Kirkpatrick having commented to the New York Herald Tribune that British agents had found evidence that the “Naumann Circle” “were plotting to seize power,” although he was “not completely certain what they were up to.”[68] However, the proceedings did prevent Naumann from entering the Bundestag, and he lost his position in the F.D.P.
“I could not understand the mindset of our executioners. On the one hand they beat, killed, sent anyone to the gas chamber for the most trivial reasons, like for example a hangnail on the finger. And on the other hand they had orchestra, a hospital with a real surgical room, they gave you anesthesia so that you would not suffer, intending to cure a hernia and be useful to them again for work. All this seemed unbelievable!” (p. 62)
The only minor point in Evans’s defense is that his book was published in 2002, prior to the many important revisionist works of the past 10 years. But the same cannot be said for Deborah Lipstadt. A professor of theology and a Zionist Jew, Lipstadt has long promoted herself as an expert on the Holocaust and Holocaust denial. In 2010 she published a chapter, “Denial,” in the authoritative Oxford University Press book Oxford Handbook of Holocaust Studies. The book is a 776-page tome dedicated to all aspects of the Holocaust. Here, if anywhere, we would expect to find a rational, logical, and disinterested treatment of the many troublesome issues.
Himmler’s Posen speech of October 4, 1943, has been called “the best evidence” to prove the Holocaust happened.[13] Himmler stated in this speech: “I am referring here to the evacuation of the Jews, the extermination of the Jewish people. This is one of the things that is easily said: “The Jewish people are going to be exterminated,” that’s what every Party member says, “sure, it’s in our program, elimination of the Jews, extermination—it’ll be done.”[14]
The use of false witnesses has been acknowledged by Johann Neuhäusler, who was an ecclesiastical resistance fighter interned in two German concentration camps from 1941 to 1945. Neuhäusler wrote that in some of the American-run trials “many of the witnesses, perhaps 90%, were paid professional witnesses with criminal records ranging from robbery to homosexuality.”[24]
The world sociopolitical status quo that the Holocaust ideology "justifies" and "legitimizes" is threatened with collapse. In this world of endless war and violence, it is the duty of politicians, intellectuals and scholars to attempt to come up with peaceful resolutions to the problems humanity faces. It is now up to the powerful interests that are behind the Holocaust mythology to engage its opponents, the revisionists, in free and democratic debate so we may get at the truth about the fate of the Jews during World War II. In this way, we can help to build a more rational and humane world order, one that is based more upon truth and less upon politically inspired propaganda.
Piper has spent his whole professional life at Auschwitz; R.J. van Pelt and his staff have visited the site and made detailed investigations there, and yet the two are not in agreement on what may be an essential element of the gas chambers - perhaps Yehuda Bauer was thinking of discrepancies like these when he spoke of the difficulty of documenting the Holocaust.
Part II of this book, “Henry Wirz: The Man and His Trial” contains the bulk of the undeniable atrocities of the story, and most of these involve the maladministration of a simulacrum of “justice” at the military tribunal assembled for Wirz’s conviction and his subsequent hanging in October 1865. This final quarter or so of the book, with the adduction of the “evidence” in the case, its verdict, its sentence, and the carrying out of the sentence, reminded me of the case of Rudolf Höss, commandant of the Auschwitz camp, in 1946-47 before a Polish tribunal, which produced the same sentence and end result. While I have not yet discovered a (translated) transcript of the Höss proceedings, I have studied at length reports of the “trials” (they were all military tribunals, which should in no way be mistaken for legitimate, much less fair, trials beyond their similarity of producing verdicts and sentences) held in Nuremberg, Dachau, and other places in the western zones of occupied Germany. It was of the details of these chiefly American-conducted proceedings that the details of Wirz’s proceeding most strikingly reminded me; indeed, Wirz’s proceeding also was entirely American.
even those who initially survived would not have found adequate living conditions, or conditions for reproduction, and would therefore have been condemned to extinction. The Nisko campaign therefore permits the conclusion that [it] was a first version of a 'final solution' policy since its aim was the physical termination of those Jews… (p. 154)
Could a ball mill be used to grind partially burned human bones? The bones that survive incineration in a crematorium oven are usually well-burned and can easily be crushed. During the initial phase of contemporary cremation, this was probably done by means of a mortar or a quern. Later an electromagnet was used to extract ferro-magnetic parts, such as coffin nails. This technique was further developed by giving the electromagnet the form of a pestle so that the crematorium worker could alternately extract the metal parts from the cremated bones and crush the bones after switching off the current. Nowadays the metal parts are first extracted (by hand or by means of the electromagnet) whereupon the bones are crushed in an electric mill. A ball mill, which is devised for continuous operation and for large amounts of grist, would be a poor choice for a crematorium. We will now examine the question if such a mill would have been suitable for the mass disposal of human bones allegedly practiced by the Germans in the occupied Soviet territories during World War Two.
Their [the Holocaust victims’] stories and fates of their communities were obscured by clouds of Soviet secrecy and anti-Semitism.
The sponsoring party, the London-based Republic of Poland, is long gone. Also gone is the Soviet-Union-sponsored Communist regime that controlled Poland until about 1990, replaced by one that has sought membership in the European Community and NATO. Very much with us today, however, is the sovereign promoter of international Jewry, Israel, and the compelling narrative defended by its advocates of the Holocaust. Also with us, if only in the nature of annoying gnats buzzing about our eyelashes, is the “corporal’s guard” of revisionists who have been advancing a cover story in fact invented by their dominant adversaries that Karski actually visited only a “sorting” camp at Izbica Lubelska, some distance from Belzec. Jansson’s account destroys this particular spin on Karski’s movements, dispositively.
In other words, no gassing happened at Auschwitz before early July 1942. Hence, the so-called Bunker 1 would not have served any purpose. This jibes well with the results of Carlo Mattogno’s detailed research into the question of whether or not this “Bunker 1” existed in the first place: it did not. It, too, is a mere figment of the imagination.[9]
Particularly discomfiting to critics of the Tehran Conference was the fact that a number of Orthodox Jews also participated at the function. Austrian Rabbi Moishe Ayra Friedman used the occasion to lament the fact that the Holocaust was being used to legitimize the suffering of other peoples and that he wanted to break the taboo on discussing it. The enlightened Rabbi remarked that the main thing “was not Jewish suffering in the past but the use of the Holocaust as a “tool of commercial, military and media power.”[41]
Kranz’s source, in this case, is a book by Dieter Ambach and Thomas Köhler which appeared in 2003 under the title “Lublin-Majdanek. Das Konzentrations- und Vernichtungslager im Spiegel von Zeugenaussagen” (Lublin-Majdanek. The Concentration and Extermination Camp in the Light of Witness Statements). The book does not give the name of the SS man in question which probably means that he was not one of the 15 persons initially indicted at Düsseldorf. It is highly likely that his confession was the result of a deal with the prosecution whereby the man would be spared any further legal problems if he acknowledged the existence of gas chambers and thus contributed to the assembly of the official presentation.
A recent work with some refreshing angles on the post-WW2 occupation of defeated Germany is always welcome, minimally at least as a small antidote to the continued appearance of Holocaust-related works which seem to endlessly exhaust and over-exhaust every minute aspect – real or imagined – of that 'footnote' to the Second World War. This work by Giles MacDonogh is not perfect, and no one should expect it to be so when so much that is historically 'inconvenient' surrounding that period is still hidden today or is ignored or pressured into a 'memory hole' oblivion. In fact, overall, this book is quite useful and informative and is recommended to all revisionists and others interested in this period of our history.
Rudolf’s Samples 15b & c were taken from a brick on the outside of one of the Birkenau delousing chambers. Whereas Sample 15c consisted of the upper, stained layer some 1 mm thick of the brick scraped off with a spatula, Sample 15b (not listed above) consisted of the sample’s remainder. The upper blue layer had a cyanide value of 2,400 ppm, whereas the rest of the sample (15b) had a value of only 56 ppm, indicating that almost all cyanide is concentrated on the upper millimetre of the brick – with no paint visible, though. As Rudolf has indicated, this may be due to the fact that the iron oxide contained in bricks is rather inert to chemical reactions due to the sintering process that all the brick’s compounds undergo when it is made, with the exception of the brick’s surface, where environmental influences (UV radiation, acid rain etc.) activate the iron.
From her entry into the spotlight of the Holocaust controversy with the publication of her Denying the Holocaust, she refused to debate or discuss with those she branded “deniers.” In the preface to her book she commented:
The walls of the delousing chambers at Auschwitz and Auschwitz-Birkenau have been found to have high or saturation levels of iron cyanides, indicating regular and intense exposure to hydrogen cyanide gas. All other buildings of that camp where samples have been taken have much lower levels of total cyanide, if any. The reason for this has yet to be agreed upon scientifically.
Since the cost estimate of these two ovens dates back to 12 February 1942, while the first designs for the new crematorium for the Birkenau camp [14] were drawn up on 15 January[15], it is clear that, to Piper, this was planned for homicidal purposes, notwithstanding the proof to the contrary adduced by Pressac. And from the moment that the crematorium is mentioned already in the “Explanatory Report on the Preliminary Draft for the New Construction of the Prisoner-of-War Camp for the Waffen-SS. Auschwitz, Upper Silesia” (Erläuterungsbericht zum Vorentwurf für den Neubau des Kriegsgefangenenlagers der Waffen-SS, Auschwitz O/S) dated 30 October 1941[16], in practice, even Piper comes to insinuate that the Birkenau camp was constructed in compliance with the alleged extermination order issued to Höss by Himmler in June 1941.
The rationale for this change of function of the camp was explained very clearly by Höss in a speech given at Auschwitz on 22 May 1943 in the presence of Kammler and other officials, in which he outlined the origins and development of the institutional tasks of the camp:
Using these horrific images, the catastrophic last days of a collapsing Germany surrounded on all sides and bombed to smithereens, as proof of deliberate extermination camps is the dirty trick that is the main reason people believe in the Holocaust.
Since the figure of 6 million Jews who died in German camps presumably is based on the 4 million Jews who died at Auschwitz-Birkenau, one would think that the 6-million Jewish deaths in the German camps should concomitantly be lowered to about 3 million. However, the official number of Jews dying in German concentration camps remains at 6 million even though this is now obviously an overstated number. There has been no rush to correct the encyclopedias or the endless stories quoting the 6-million-Jewish-deaths figure.[27]
The German leadership was well aware of the false atrocity tales of the First World War, and they were just as aware of the false atrocity tales of the war then in progress. Mainstream Holocaust historian Richard Breitman points out that in September 1942, Rabbi Stephen Wise, president of the American Jewish Congress, related to American Undersecretary of state Summer Welles the story that the Nazis were making soap from the flesh of gassed Jews and artificial fertilizer from their bones. This news ultimately leaked back to Himmler. Breitman then admits that this particular rumor was a false atrocity tale: “Himmler knew that no one was supposed to be manufacturing fats or artificial fertilizers from corpses (in fact, it turned out that this part of the report was erroneous).”[102]
Note that in lack of any extant document regarding these transports there is no evidence regarding the number of deportees contained in them. Hence, Czech’s numbers (here in the second column) are arbitrary at best, and, perforce, so are the numbers of alleged unregistered deportees, all of whom Czech lists as gassing victims with the exact number, in spite of the fact that she starts out with a made-up estimate. It’s all hocus-pocus.
Bonhoeffer was confident that human nobility never disappears from the human race. “Nobility,” he explained, “springs from and thrives on self-sacrifice and courage and an unfailing sense of duty to oneself and society….. It demands a recovery of the lost sense of quality.” He believed that the world is so structured that “a profound respect for the absolute human laws and human rights is also the best means of self-preservation.” Wiser heads among the Jewish people are already seeing this in our context. In Australia recently the Jewish activist and former editor of Melbourne”s The Age newspaper, Michael Gawenda, was reported as saying that, while he hated Holocaust revisionism, he was no longer convinced that repressing it was the right way to go.
A second example comes from Auschwitz itself. Prior to 1990, all authoritative sources held that the camp witnessed 4 million total deaths (Jews and non-Jews). On July 17 of that year, the Washington Times announced: “Poland reduces Auschwitz death toll estimate to 1 million.”[73] Virtually overnight, and with little fanfare, the most infamous of death camps saw a 75% reduction. As it happens, though, the reduction came almost exclusively in the non-Jewish numbers—which plummeted by over 90%. It was another dramatic instance of the experts being significantly wrong, for decades.
The Nuremberg Tribunal proceedings contain two important references, the first in the so-called Chavez Report, dated 7 May 1945:
Other organizations go beyond inactivity or silence to openly attacking freedom of speech when it comes to revisionists. Upon the release of David Irving from prison, Efraim Zuroff, the director of the Simon Wiesenthal Center's office in Israel said that the court's ruling was the "worst possible response to last week's Holocaust denial conference in Tehran and will only encourage those who support these mad ideas."[27]
[23] Amouyal, Barbara, “Doubts over Evidence of Camp Survivors,” Jerusalem Post, Israel, Aug. 17, 1986, p. 1.
In 1942 there were no crematoriums in Birkenau and the only gas chambers according to the official story were Bunkers 1 and 2, or Little Red House and Little White House. Those were simple farmhouses outside the camp that had been converted into gas chambers. The corpses were then buried in pits. Pogozhev continues:
4. During this time I saw the following high ranking persons visit the camp of Sachsenhausen:
Mr. Filing (the member for Moore) enlarged on the Opposition’s objections to the proposed Section 60 (an amendment to the Crimes Act of 1914): “There is a fundamental difference… between expressing an opinion, however odious, and threatening violence to personal property….. We on this side of the chamber will not support a criminal sanction for expressing a view and encouraging others to adopt it when you are not inciting people to damage property or persons.”[39]
“Gas Chamber, disguised as a shower room never used as a gas chamber.”
The official Majdanek version had yet another gas chamber, not mentioned by the Polish-Soviet commission, besides the six referred to above. It is said to have been a room in the new crematorium.
The trial received early revisionist attention from chemist William Lindsey, who wrote a substantial (if somewhat intemperate) 1983 article outlining its course,[2] and has also been criticized from the orthodox side, notably by Jean-Claude Pressac, who wrote that “In 1946, simple malicious gossip could easily lead to someone being hung. I do not know whether the ‘trip report’ was produced before the Tribunal,[3] but if it was not then, this trial was a masquerade.”[4] In the only significant orthodox account of the trial, Angelika Ebbinghaus focuses on background information, offering little on the details of the trial.[5] Some aspects of the trial have also been covered in a history of Tesch & Stabenow.[6]
Kranz eliminated these “gas chambers”, even though their existence continues to be asserted in the orthodox literature on Majdanek.
Starting in the late 1980s and on through to his death, he had been active as director of the Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust (CODOH), a group dedicated to defending free speech and free inquiry on the Holocaust issue, to encouraging greater public access to revisionist scholarship, and to promoting awareness of the controversy regarding the Holocaust story and censorship measures deployed in its perpetuation.
Ultimately Alvarez and Marais conclude “there are …no material traces of these vehicles and no photos.” There is little doubt that gas vans are simply one more evil Holocaust fairy-tale like the soap made from human cadavers and lampshades made of human skin. Revisionists have thought this as early as 1948 when Francis Parker Yockey quipped, “a ‘gasmobile’ was invented to titillate the mechanically-minded.”  Forty-five years later, Ingrid Weckert came to a similar conclusion in her treatment of the subject, ”The Gas Vans: A Critical Assessment of the Evidence”
When asked by counsel to explain his bizarre ruling, the flustered judge managed to stammer that the testimony “of the expert witness, certified chemist Rudolf, is completely unsuitable for evidence” in this case, and noted that Rudolf had not actually been questioned on the issue of gas chambers anyway.
One of the leading specialists in forensic investigation of fires, Dr. John DeHaan, who, together with his colleagues, has burned quite a lot of corpses, both animal and human, in controlled environment, has this to say about combustion of human fat in his and Elayne Pope's presentation "Combustion Properties of Human and Large Animal Remains":
“In the course of the practical execution of the final solution, Europe will be combed through from west to east. Germany proper, including the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, will have to be handled first due to the housing problem and additional social and political necessities. The evacuated Jews will first be sent, group by group, to so-called transit ghettos, from which they will be transported to the East.”
The key word here, of course, is unnoticed. If the Holocausters paid attention to their little revisionist fellow traveler, the Holocaust, like all other historical events, would then be open to legitimate historical debate. And that's the last thing establishment Holocaust historians want. So we're not fooled when Thomas Dalton swears that he is not a revisionist, that he's merely a neutral observer trying to objectively present a scholarly debate. As far as the true blue Holocausters are concerned, there is no debate. By simply positing that a dialog exists—and by refusing to subtitle his book with some overblown, sensational reference to "assassinated" or "assaulted" memory—Dalton is throwing in his lot with the dark side. He is, alas, one of us.
All that remains are the studies of those who don’t bend to the pressure; who literally risk loss of life, limb and liberty when publishing their iconoclastic research results. I may point out two of those studies which can give the reader a good overview as to why we have an “Auschwitz problem”:
Professor McGowan’s position is a classic case of blaming the victims for their own victimization. Promo Levi wrote in The Drowned and the Saved that what he most feared was echoed in a remark by one of his SS guards: That if he somehow managed to live through this hell no one would believe his descriptions of Auschwitz. Sadly, for some, that day has arrived.
A quick reference also to the "cremation pits" of the courtyard of Crematorium V. In confirmation, Venezia's book reproduces two photographs.
It is possible therefore, as argued by some, that there was no one order for the extermination of the Jews and that there were several orders, given at various times, to various organizations. Yet if this were true it would rather cast a shadow over our understanding of the ‘Final Solution’. This was meant to be a state implemented policy of racist genocide, not piecemeal, regional actions instigated in the heat of war. Beyond any different interpretations, what is clear is that the evidence provided by these witnesses, although corroborative as to the general existence of an order, are otherwise completely contradictory, to the extent that it has to be questioned whether they are referring to the same thing. The idea that these witnesses’ stories support each other simply does not stand up. What we find therefore, is that on this most important point, a central plank of the Holocaust narrative for all these years, all the Trial of the Century managed to provide were a few contradictory statements, which historians have since rationalized to match their own assumptions.
Despite what Lipstadt writes, if hard evidence for the Holocaust is overwhelming and the claims of revisionists ridiculous, to engage the latter in debate would not lend them credibility and respect. Quite the contrary. Crossing swords with these “cranks” would be a golden opportunity for Lipstadt to expose their alleged quackery and stupidity. Only if revisionism has intrinsic validity will it gain stature by a public hearing. The Emory University professor’s refusal to debate carries with it the implicit recognition that revisionism has more legitimacy than she cares to admit.
Gerlach’s comment that “this goes to show to how large an extent these events remain unknown to us still today” perfectly sums up the situation. Here we have a prominent holocaust historian who admits that tens of thousands of Polish Jews may have been sent to Minsk, Bobruisk, Mogilev and other locations in Generalbezirk Weissruthenien, and that we know little about the number and nature of the Jewish transports to these locations. In light of this, how are we to take seriously the official claim that no mass resettlement of Polish Jews to the east took place, and that documented instances of transports of Polish Jews to Minsk and elsewhere constitute singular exceptions?
“I have been vilified by the caretakers of the Holocaust dogma whose desperate tactics prove the failure of their arguments. My livelihood has been destroyed, my character has been impugned and my life turned upside down. But I will not bend the knee. Not now, not tomorrow, not ever. Time and reason will vindicate The Leuchter Report.”[17]
The message is clear for all to behold: don’t tangle with those (and we all know who they are) who command the heights of the System. Not only will you be thoroughly smacked down, you will be eternally ruined in your professional and financial life. David Irving joins the ranks of martyrs that today encompass many names known to those who have plumbed the mendacious depths of what passes for Holocaust Knowledge, including Norman Finkelstein2 (author of the magisterial The Holocaust Industry), Nicholas Kollerstrom (historian of science who dared to interpret the findings of chemist Germar Rudolf regarding cyanide traces in the walls of concentration camps), Jean Plantin, Robert Faurisson, Joel Hayward, Ernst Zündel, Horst Mahler, Sylvia Stolz, Ursula Haverbeck, Eric Hunt, Siegfried Verbeke, Germar Rudolf himself, Roger Garaudy, Paul Rassinier, Wilhelm Stäglich—the names go on and on, my own (real) name down around the bottom of the list.
As to the book's contents, anyone hoping to find all of Berg's major contributions collected or at least summarized here will walk away disappointed. Berg's website is an assembly of several additional, but usually marginal findings to his older contributions, summaries of some of which are interwoven now and again. His book therefore has the same patchwork-like style and contents. “Fritz” Berg's other two main papers published in the ole Journal for Historical Review – "Typhus and the Jews" and "Zyklon B and the German Delousing Chambers"—are only mentioned in passing. The Diesel issue is explained in some detail, but not as deeply as any newcomer to revisionism looking for a thorough overview might expect and hope for. Berg's ongoing disagreement with Prof. Faurisson is covered to some degree when Berg discusses railway delousing tunnels, which he thinks would have been a technology permitting large-scale conveyor-belt-style mass murders (pp. 155-174). As much as I consider Berg's hypothetical arguments valid, he loses my sympathy again when calling revisionists who disagree with him "retarded" (p. 174). Berg may be an excellent engineer, but his emotional and social intelligence, sadly, very badly impair the receptibility and understandability of what he has to say.
Kramer was ably represented at his trial by Major T. C. M. Winwood, R. A., but as he was unable to present any evidence on behalf of his client from his erstwhile superiors, Kramer's fate was a foregone conclusion. Thwarted as he was in this regard, Winwood was reduced to calling Kramer's wife as a witness on his behalf. In the summation portion of his opening statement to the court, Winwood coined a clever phrase which would singularly stand out in the course of the trial proceedings:
“At the end of July 1942 (or the beginning of August) both Sonderkommandos were merged and transferred to permanent accommodation in Birkenau. They were allocated a separate barracks-stable next to the fence. One end of the barracks was boarded up, the other faced a watch tower with an SS guard. Two men were chosen from the Soviet POWs for around-the-clock guard duty at the Sonderkommando barracks. To my great surprise one of those two happened to be myself. […] After a few days, in spite of the strict prohibition, we – and not only we – knew at first-hand what was happening in the ‘Secret Grove’ behind the camp; knew what the Sonderkommandos were doing and who was involved. The rumours were fully confirmed. One Sonderkommando – more numerous than the other – dug pits for mass graves – burying the evidence from pyres, gas chambers and crematoria. The other one serviced the first gas chamber, which was set up like a bath-house. Corpses were burned in the crematoria and on pyres. Everyone in the crew had his duties clearly spelled out. Each man knew what he was supposed to be doing. And no corpse would be burned (either in the crematorium or on the pyres) until it had undergone a thorough examination.”
Jones mentions another person who would have had a major part in the first interrogation of former Auschwitz commander: Vera Atkinson, who had appeared during the TV show “Secret Hunters.” Ella “told how Hoss [sic] made a full and frank confession to the killing of two-and-a half million inmates of the concentration camp” (Mason 1986). During a video interview in January 1987, she made the following statements as reproduced in a 2012 book (Footitt/Kelly, pp. 61f.):
This is footage taken after the liberation of Paris of an alleged Gestapo Torture Chamber near the Eiffel Tower. In the description, we read:
Well what do you know? Now it’s Helmut Grunewald’s turn who has some really interesting things to say. Born in 1918 to a Jewish father and a Catholic mother, he was deported to Auschwitz on March 1943. His father had been arrested by the Gestapo in 1942. Here’s what happened at the interrogation:
In its present form there is very strong indirect evidence against all three accused but only weak direct evidence against Dr TESCH and no direct evidence at all against Herr WEINBACHER and Dr DROSIHN. The direct evidence against Dr TESCH can be strengthened slightly if a corroborative statement is obtained from Wilhelm POOK.[65]
For the long list of twins and children at Auschwitz who survived the camp, see Mattogno’s paper.
In Exodus 20: 1-7, idol worship is explicitly condemned. We read: “I am the Lord your God…You shall have no other gods before me…you shall not bow down to them [the ‘other gods’] or serve them.” In contemporary Western society and mainstream Christian circles, the Holocaust is before the concept of God. You can use the Holocaust ideology to “disprove” and discredit the concept of God and Christianity (as the popular “God-died-with-Auschwitz” theology shows), but it is “evil and immoral” to attempt to disprove the Holocaust ideology. You can use it to critically examine and question the very existence of God, as the “God-died-with-Auschwitz” theologians do. Yet, one cannot critically evaluate this “other god,” the Holocaust. You must only bow down and serve it. That is to say, just uncritically accept it.
Lipstadt laments that “Holocaust deniers” and critiques of post-war Allied policy towards Germany focus on the Morgenthau Plan, which she correctly states “would have prevented the economic rehabilitation of Germany.” However she claims “the plan was never put into effect.”[13] The Morgenthau Diary, published in two volumes from a selection of thousands of documents edited by Professor Anthony Kubek of Dallas University, and issued by the Internal Security Subcommittee of the U.S. Senate on the Judiciary in 1967, shows that Morgenthau and his chief assistant Dr. Harry Dexter White headed up a team in the U.S. Treasury that supervened the War and State Departments in formulating policies on occupied Germany. Drawing on the memoirs of Secretary of War Henry Stimson and Secretary of State Cordell Hull, Kubek asserts that Morgenthau and White, et al were at loggerheads with other policy-makers. Due to Morgenthau’s influence on Roosevelt it was the Treasury cabal that prevailed. Morgenthau also had the support of a perennial presidential adviser, the banker Bernard Baruch, who threatened to end the careers of those in Washington who stood in the way of obliterating Germany.[14] Stimson objected that the Morgenthau Plan to deindustrialize Germany would cause the starvation of 30,000,000 Germans. Although President Truman opposed the Morgenthau Plan and Morgenthau resigned in 1945 when Truman did not include him in the Potsdam delegation, 140 of his Treasury cabal were ensconced in the occupation administration in Germany and ensured that genocidal policies proceeded under the terms of JCS 1067.[15] The extent to which the Morgenthau Plan was carried out has been documented by Bacque.[16]
“Gas chamber
From the start we shared a commitment to Holocaust revisionism, and soon a camaraderie, as we worked together, first at the Institute of Historical Review, where I pressed Bradley to stress, rather than his occasional pratfalls, his on-air achievements in his accounts of his work for IHR’s Radio Project. Later I advised and edited Bradley’s efforts on behalf of his Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust, through which, more than any other revisionist, he was able to gain Holocaust revisionism notoriety at hundreds of American universities and in perturbed editorials in the national news media.
According to the testimonies of former prisoners (Sakowski, Zwaart, Weiss-Ruethel etc.), the liquidation of Soviet POWs (”Russenaktion“) occurred in a hut in the North Yard. The exact position of that hut is unknown, but it was situated – according to Sakowski - very close to the place where the new crematorium would be built in Spring 1942.
In compensation, Venezia recounts another story which regards the chimney of Crematorium III:
Deborah Lipstadt writes in her book Denying the Holocaust that “on some level Irving seems to conceive of himself as carrying on Hitler’s legacy.” Lipstadt says scholars have described Irving as a “Hitler partisan wearing blinkers” who “distort[ed] evidence…manipulat[ed] documents, [and] skew[ed]…and misrepresent[ed] data in order to reach historically untenable conclusions.”[3] David Irving filed a libel suit against Deborah Lipstadt and Penguin Books Ltd. in British courts to attempt to end these and other similar statements.
I once saw DPs [Displaced Persons] beat an SS man and then strap him to the steel gurney of a crematorium. They slid him in the oven, turned on the heat and took him back out. Beat him again, and put him back in until he was burnt alive. I did nothing to stop it. I suppose I could have brandished my weapon or shot in the air, but I was not inclined to do so. Does that make me an accomplice to murder?
Our approaches to revisionism were different. I had absorbed much of the historiographical tradition of America First while growing up, and further saw revisionism as playing an active role in the defense of the West. For Bradley, Holocaust revisionism was first of all an issue of individual free expression. He was not so much interested in how the Holocaust did or didn’t happen (I once called in during a local radio show Bradley was doing to lob him a batting-practice question about the Leuchter Report, but no, he couldn’t recall any studies of missing cyanide residue in the “gas chambers”). Nor did Bradley trouble very much with the complexities of central European polity between the wars: to him, for invading Poland, Hitler was merely an “asshole.”
Mengele wasn’t the only Auschwitz physician who managed to escape, though. Hans Wilhelm König was even better than Mengele. König disappeared without leaving a trace. But no one has ever heard that name, or have you?
On the other hand, the writer of the sentence may have meant that “people are not so hesitant about banning the views of ‘Holocaust deniers.’” That is true of some people but not all. There are plenty of people around the world who genuinely believe in and defend intellectual freedom and who recognise clearly that no topic at all should be protected from debate in public forums. This includes many people who are not “Holocaust revisionists,” including plenty who are opposed to such views.
In spite of the most intense lobbying efforts, the law failed to be ratified until four years later, when a Socialist-Communist coalition government under the regime of President Francois Mitterand approved a Holocaust denial bill in July, 1990.[17]
Later he referred to “this outrageous revisionist version of history”. Later still he referred to the revisionist view of the Holocaust as “just diatribe.” These and many other references throughout the transcript show that an inadequate background of knowledge is being brought to the public deliberations on this bill and that a crudeness and lack of subtlety of terminology are being employed, which means clearly that the nation is not yet ready to have legislation on such controversial matters of race and society framed, debated, legislated and enacted. A Miss Chung said, on page 302, “We can never wait for the perfect time.” However, the present time, the present context, is grossly imperfect, so the voice of wisdom says, “Not yet, not yet.”
[16] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, p. 84.
A significant portion of the world’s Christians already accept the orthodox Holocaust story due to decades of indoctrination from both governmental and media sources. The Catholic Church’s recent warning that to reject the Holocaust dogma “violates Catholic teachings” and is to “engage in sin” may well keep many well-meaning Catholics from even considering that there is another side to the Holocaust story.
Dr. Lipstadt does admit that the Institute for Historical Review (IHR), which once was the flagship of Holocaust revisionism, “protested that it was not interested in resurrecting any regime” (p. 142), but that won’t help, because Lipstadt knows it all better: “the reality is quite different” (p. 143). I’ll return to her treatment of the IHR in Section 4.5.
As with the larger Holocaust, "no order from the Führer to murder the Jews was ever issued to the Einsatzgruppen" (p. 499, note 69); this alleged event "cannot be understood as the implementation of a single order issued by the National Socialist hierarchy" (p. 235). Consequently, Einsatzgruppen B and C "displayed some considerable perplexity" about how to handle the 'final solution' (p. 210): on the one hand, they were supposed to shoot partisans attacking the German army from the rear, but on the other, there was strong need for forced labor. Alfred Rosenberg described "the establishment of ghettos and labour gangs" as the "key solution" to the Jewish question, and the Einsatzgruppen leadership evidently concurred. Ghettoization was to be the first phase of the final solution, to be maintained during the war. Complete removal ("annihilation," according to Longerich) would come after the war.
Giuliani demanded action against revisionists, writing in the New York Times that “revisionist viewpoints put us at risk of a repetition of race-based genocide”. Washington demanded, and Vienna obeyed. Wolfgang Fröhlich was arrested on 21st June 2003 and spent twelve of the next sixteen years in prison – the rest of the time on trial or awaiting trial. During one of these intervals of semi-liberty, in 2006 Fröhlich attended the Tehran International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust – an event offered uniquely by Iran as being open to all sides of debate on this topic – accompanied by his indefatigable Viennese attorney, Dr Herbert Schaller. He received an ovation from the Iranian audience after simply telling them that he was legally prevented by the Austrian authorities from expressing his views even in Tehran.
The best mainstream treatment on the issue of coke, firewood and Zyklon B deliveries to Auschwitz is thus totally inconsistent and utterly unable even to scratch the surface of revisionist critiques.
Is it really "beyond international discourse" to question the efficacy and the forensic evidence of homicidal gas chambers? If other myths, like making soap from human fat, have been dismissed as Allied war propaganda, why is it "unacceptable behavior" to ask if the gas chamber at Dachau was not reconstructed by the Americans because no other homicidal gas chamber could be found and used as evidence at the Nuremburg trials?
During his American speaking tour, Niemöller told American audiences that Germans were receiving no better than “the lowest ration ever heard of in a Nazi concentration camp.”[29] Although Niemöller raised more money than expected from his American tour, he was disappointed in its outcome because he was not able to improve U.S. occupation policies in Germany. Starvation conditions continued in Germany after Niemöller’s American tour.[30]
In regard to the politically inspired falsehood that four million people were murdered at Auschwitz, here is how the late Pope John Paul II proposed it is to be used. We let the New York Times pick up the story here about his June 1979 visit to the camp: "His voice going hoarse on the sixth day of the visit to his native Poland, the Pope asked that all his listeners commit themselves to the care of human beings and the oppressed, in testimony for the four million—including two and a half million Jews—who died in the camps he could see from the raised altar platform."[92] As in the case of Theresa Heinz Kerry, the Pope proposed that the Holocaust mythology should be a motivating force for social action.
Whereas the War Department's propaganda had portrayed Polish victimhood as comparable to, if not greater than, that of the Jews, Holocaust reversed this. Uniformed Poles were portrayed in three segments helping Germans to execute Jews.
First, this isn’t even Buchenwald. This is a photo of a Dachau delousing chamber.
“The Warsaw ghetto held 350,000 Jews at its opening, a number that peaked at 450,000 in mid-1942 and declined to 80,000 when it was closed in May 1943. Overall, 500,000 Jews passed through the ghetto. Of these, 40,000 died in the ghetto of natural causes, and 10,000 were shot there by the Nazis. The 50,000 bodies were dumped into three mass graves in a nearby forest, which were exhumed and studied in 19xx. The remaining 450,000 people were eventually transported out of the ghetto—300,000 to Treblinka, 100,000 to Majdanek, and 50,000 to other concentration camps.”
“Krestinga” is almost certainly a misspelling of Kretinga (in German Krottingen) a Lithuanian coastal city some 25 km north of Klaipeda (Memel).[81] There existed a subcamp to the Riga-Kaiserwald concentration camp in Kretinga until the summer of 1944, when the camp was liquidated and its inmates deported to Stutthof in Poland. The inmates of the Krottingen camp worked in a military-clothing factory (the Armeebekleidungsamt Krottingen).[82] There also existed a camp known as Dimitrava near Kretinga.[83] The Hungarian-Jewish sisters Sarah, Tamara and Irina Genzor were deported to the Krottingen camp after spending a month in Auschwitz in June 1944.[84]
Suvorov’s book The Chief Culprit fails to mention Adolf Hitler’s speech on December 11, 1941 declaring war on the United States. This speech provides important corroborating evidence why Hitler attacked the Soviet Union. Hitler stated in this speech:
If the SS had nothing to hide at Auschwitz, Setkiewicz concludes, they would not have invented “complicated euphemisms,” but since they invented them, they tried to “hide the traces of unprecedented crimes” (p. 74), which means that the “proof” par excellence for the alleged gassings at Auscwhitz is reduced to those alleged “euphemisms”!
Even the bitter opponent of “Holocaust denial,” Israeli historian Yehuda Bauer, admits the Holocaust is now viewed as "a mysterious event, an upside-down miracle so to speak, an event of religious significance in the sense that it is not man-made as that term is normally understood."[13] The Holocaust is the secular religion of the Western world, complete with punishment and prison sentences for heretics who reject it. It is an “other god” that has been raised above all other religions, including the Christian religion and the concept of God itself, and in this sense it truly is a form of anti-Christian idol worship.
Denigration of values is often associated with the smearing of reputations. A key source of public opinion and popular knowledge is Wikipedia. Today the article on Harry Elmer Barnes focuses nearly half its length on the subject of “Holocaust denial” a subject that Barnes never entertained in his writings.[10] Besides the long list of those tarred by the “denial” brush,[11] the core values of the West itself have suffered under a politicized revaluation of values. Patrick Buchanan comments,
Mengele was a deputy of the Auschwitz garrison physician Dr. Eduard Wirths. Wirths, in turn, was celebrated by hundreds of Auschwitz inmates as a hero, as the “Angel of Auschwitz” saving the lives of tens of thousands of them with his selfless efforts to improve their lot and to battle the epidemics reaping a gruesome harvest at Auschwitz.[13] Mengele was Wirths’s right-hand man – in the battle to save as many lives as possible of those whom the authorities of the Third Reich had recklessly and irresponsibly deported to Auschwitz.
So we see here (1) continued endorsement for literal deportation, (2) no talk of killing, murder, gas chambers, etc, (3) an equation between ‘extermination’ and deportation, and (4) a minimal concern for secrecy. The fact that Hitler finds some use in the rumor mill is interesting, a kind of unanticipated fringe benefit. But he perhaps did not anticipate how talk of extermination would play in the Anglo world. Two months before he made the above comment, the New York Times (August 25; p. 3) reported that, “unless the Nazis were defeated, wholesale extermination would be the lot of all Jews” (…“including those in the United States and Britain”!)—and here, ‘extermination’ means murder, no doubt.
The War Refugee Board (WRB) established by US President Franklin D. Roosevelt brought 200,000 Jews out of the German sphere of influence by 1945.[16] Among these would certainly have been some of the western European Jews and/or Soviet citizens not evacuated before German occupation.  Likewise Jon and David Kimche indeed reportedhaben that 300,000 Jews left Europe during the war despite vigorous efforts on the part of Germans to prevent it.[17] Further still there was the HICEM (1927-1940 Paris; 1940 Lisbon). With their help 90,000 Jews left aboard neutral Portuguese ships by 1945.[18] I assume some portion of these are double-counted. Regardless, around half a million Jews (IJA, WRB, HICEM) escaped by means of an organized flight from the German sphere of influence; together with the 600,000 "Holocaust survivors" of the "gray camps of misery" this yields 1 million previously missing Jews (see Table 2 under B). Beside the hundreds of thousands of Jewish dead the question of the extra survivors, particularly the Polish, German and western European Jews might be answered for the most part. It is not known from what countries the over one million Jewish DPs "in the gray camps of misery of Europe" and the Jews escaped from the German sphere of influence come, exactly how many there were, from which concentration camps or ghettos, etc. they came, of whom the Institute of Jewish Affairs (1943), the War Refugee Board (1945), the AJYB (1948), David Kimche (1954), HICEM and Nahum Goldmann (1978) report: from Poland, Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands or even from the part of the Soviet Union occupied by German troops from 1941 to 1944... !? Today no one speaks of the matter; but after the war most were here, for the most part in the American zone of occupation in Germany (Kimche, Morgan, Hilberg, Goldmann, American Jewish Year Book) or fled to other countries during the war (Kimche, Institute of Jewish Affairs, War Refugee Board, HICEM). They are for the most part uncounted in the survivor statistics!
Put in other words, Grumbach evidently feels that if the scientific arguments advanced by revisionists should be vindicated, he may very well be condemned to a gas chamber at some point in the future.
This means that the German “crimes against humanity” in Eastern Europe were almost exclusively “proved” by the reports of the ESC, which were the sole evidence adduced by the Soviet prosecution and made available in English translation to the American, British and French judges. In other words, the commonly accepted history of German crimes in the East is largely based on the ESC reports submitted at the Nuremberg trial.
In the run-up to Kristallnacht, we find evidence of Goebbels’s involvement with anti-Jewish actions the month before:
In the mass of statements about Auschwitz with which van Pelt confronts the readers of his book we also have a remark by the camp commander Höss regarding the operation of pyres. Höss said that, fundamentally, the capacity of cremation on pyres at Auschwitz was unlimited; it was only when enemy air activity became a threat over the Auschwitz area from 1944 onwards that problems arose, because it was no longer possible to burn corpses at night (this period of potential air-raids coincides, by the way, with the greatest homicidal activity ascribed to the camp).
The first Soviet drafts of a report about Sachsenhausen[51] which were produced between May and September 1945 speak of 14,000 shot Soviet POWs while the figure given in later drafts is 13,000 to 14,000. In the GDR it was claimed that 18,000 Russian soldiers had been shot. These contradictory numbers prove that none of the authors possessed any tangible information. All figures given are mere guesswork based on atrocity propaganda. On the other hand, it is a proven fact that SS officers who had received the war merit cross at around that time were rewarded with a vacation in Italy. (Fig. 8).
How many Jews were actually available to be killed, i.e. how many fell into the hands of the Einsatzgruppen? Revisionist researcher Dr. Walter Sanning in his path-breaking The Dissolution of Eastern European Jewry demonstrated that the six million figure was impossible, that literally millions of European Jews had escaped the Nazis through legal emigration and through evacuation eastwards with the Red Army as it retreated before the invading German forces. We may never know how many 'Eastern' Jews escaped this way but the numbers are generally agreed upon to figure in the millions. The Germans simply did not have anywhere near the numbers of Jews in their control that the official Holocaust story presumes.
Given the preponderance of evidence from victims, bystanders, and perpetrators, and given the fact that the deniers’ arguments lie so far beyond the pale of scholarly arguments […].
Karski’s interview with Claude Lanzmann for the movie Shoah is his first and his most detailed. Though Karski discussed Belzec at length, his account so unsettled Lanzmann that it was entirely omitted from Shoah, as well as from the 2010 documentary Le Rapport Karski which was cut from the same footage. The reason for Lanzmann’s discomfort is easy to see. When asked about his knowledge of Belzec at the time of his visit, Karski replied:
Venezia obviously did not fully adhere to this passage, since he attributes to Crematorium II or III that which F. Müller reports about the "Bunker" and Crematoria IV and V.
It should be added that in the previous autumn, on 26 October 1942, a convoy (with the code “By”) had brought 1,866 Jews from Theresienstadt to Auschwitz; 247 of those were registered in the camp, while the remaining 1,619 were “gassed”, i.e. transferred elsewhere. The preceding five transports from Theresienstadt (departing during the brief period of 5-22 October) had all been sent to Treblinka. The transport “Ct” departing from Theresienstadt on 29 January with 1,001 deportees is listed as bound for Auschwitz by, among other sources, the Terezin Studies website,[89] but does not appear in Czech’s Kalendarium.[90] Disregarding the minor uncertainty about this single transport, the contradiction between the orthodox historical picture and the 28 February 1943 news reports is clear. If the latter were correct, then the Jews in question could only have been sent to Transnistria via Auschwitz. The issue of these possible transports to Transnistria requires further research.
As early as 1983-1985, Raul Hilberg, surrendering to the arguments of “Faurisson and others...” had to drop the pretense of explaining, on the basis of valid arguments and documents of his own, that the Third Reich had, with proper Germanic efficiency, designed, prepared, developed, organized and financed the killing of millions of European Jews. The eminent Jewish-American historian ended up finding himself reduced to trying to have us believe that this gigantic massacre had come about by the operation of the Holy Spirit or, in his words, by “an incredible meeting of minds, a consensus-mind reading within a large bureaucracy”2 that had, on its own, spontaneously decided, it seemed, gradually to abandon written communication in favor of verbal or indeed telepathic exchange to such an extent that no written or material evidence bespoke the six million Jews (or, in Hilberg’s estimation, a bit fewer) having been systematically killed either on the Eastern Front or in the gas chambers, mainly at Auschwitz.
Hence, it looks like this room was initially meant to serve as a morgue. In fact, the striking feature of this building is that, if we discard the idea that this alleged gas chamber served as a morgue, this building has no other room of a suitable size equipped with a ventilation system.
7) Pressac published an extract of the plan of the roof of Crematorium II of the delivery receipt of Crematorium II of March 19, 1943, which shows the power output of the ventilation devices located in the attic of the building:
The American infatuation with Niemöller was severely tested by an interview he gave in Naples on June 5, 1945 to dozens of British and American war correspondents. Niemöller said his objections to Nazism were religious and not political, which is why he had offered his services to the German Navy when World War II broke out. Niemöller said that honest Germans did not feel responsible for the German concentration camps. Niemöller further said that the German people were ill suited to live under a Western form of democracy; indeed, in many ways Germans preferred authoritarian rule.[19]
A few weeks after Israel’s invasion of Lebanon, Begin stated that after the Holocaust the international community had lost its right to demand that Israel answer for its actions. Begin declared in the Knesset, “No one, anywhere in the world, can preach morality to our people.” A similar statement was included in the resolution adopted by Begin’s cabinet after the massacres in Palestinian refugee camps on the outskirts of Beirut.[12]
Today, these particular camps are admitted not to have had homicidal gas chambers at all. So, none of the corpses seen in these images were gassed. What you see in these images are prisoners who died from desease as well as a lack of appropiate food, water and medical supplies. A large part of their condition was due to the Allies bombing supply lines to the camps.
In the face of the advancing Soviet Army, Anne Frank was evacuated to Bergen-Belsen, where she died of typhus in March 1945. While Anne Frank’s fate was tragic, her story is not consistent with a German plan of extermination against the Jews. Along with thousands of others at Bergen-Belsen, Anne died from a typhus epidemic and not from a German plan to commit genocide against European Jewry. Williamson’s mention of 6 million Jews who died during the war is also a ridiculous exaggeration.[19]
Therefore, he is not an “amateur” (as is the self-confessing Rotondi) but a scholar of clear fame. Unfortunately, however, the level of his approach to revisionism (and, in particular, to Leuchter) is identical to that of Rotondi, and indeed, it seems that he took cues from him. In Giannuli’s book, the third chapter, which is dedicated to the (alleged) refutation of revisionism is titled “The Tribunalization of History” (“La tribunalizzazione della storia”). Giannuli deals with the Leuchter Report on pages 115-117, from which I take the following quote (all emphases are mine):
While Crowell worked on Sherlock he discovered with the help of Fritz Berg a significant amount of material regarding German Civil Air Defense.  Crowell's understanding that several of the so-called criminal traces of the gas chambers could be explained through this rarely seen civil defense literature soon took center stage in his research efforts.
Dr. Lipstadt, professor of Modern Jewish History and Holocaust studies at Emory University, ended up accepting this research assignment, and it turned into a book that was to have major consequence. It first appeared in 1993 with the title Denying the Holocaust: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory.[1]
[31] Provan, Charles D., “New Light on Dr. Miklos Nyiszli and His Auschwitz Book,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 20, No. 1, Jan./Feb. 2001, p. 29 https://codoh.com/library/document/new-light-on-dr-miklos-nyiszli-and-his-auschwitz/en/.
During the “Russenaktion” the field crematoria were deployed in the immediate neighborhood of the shooting barracks and surrounded by a high paling to conceal them from curious eyes. The crematoria and the paling are sometimes called “provisional crematory”. The shooting barracks and the field crematoria were situated at the “North Yard” of Sachsenhausen, a quiet, isolated sector of the camp where only a handful of prisoners were assigned.
Wiernik’s claim that 20-25 people could fit into one square meter is clearly absurd. Rajchman’s claim of 8 victims per square meter is certainly less so, but it is still not easily conceivable. Moreover, would not the “shower heads, from which the gas flowed inside” the chamber, have been frequently damaged by panicking victims in their death throes? It also seems extremely unlikely, that the observation windows in the doors would have been of much use, as the view would surely have been permanently blocked by someone’s head or torso.
Since World War Two, public attitudes on the interwar Revisionist controversy have been largely reversed. The battle for a proper revision of the causes of World War One was not lost because of new evidence, but rather because of new attitudes shaped by events, real or contrived, of World War Two.[28]
For six days in October 1999 the team carefully examined the entire Treblinka site, especially the alleged “mass graves” portion, and carried out control examinations of the surrounding area. Krege’s team also carried out visual soil inspections, and used an auger to take numerous soil samples. They found no soil disturbance consistent with the burial of hundreds of thousands of bodies, nor even evidence that the ground had ever been disturbed. In addition, the team found no evidence of individual graves, bone remains, human ashes or wood ashes. Richard Krege concludes from his examination of the site that Treblinka was never an extermination camp.[14]
We talked about location and decided that Washington should be the preferred site. After all, there is a huge Holocaust memorial on the National Mall and the United States certainly has had more to do with causing the Palestinian diaspora than it did with causing the Jewish Diaspora. But this idea was soon abandoned given the current political climate, the influence of the neo-conservatives, and the overwhelming prejudice against Palestinians among the so-called Christian Right. In spite of the fact that there are 6 to 7 million Muslims in the United States (vs. 5.2 million Jews), it is as difficult to find a Muslim in Congress as it is to find one on National PUBLIC Radio. A proposal to build a monument to slain Palestinians on the National Mall would certainly open Deir Yassin Remembered up to attack. On the other hand it might have gotten the three of us one-way tickets to Kfar Shaul, the mental hospital now occupying the buildings of Deir Yassin. Most of the patients there suffer from the Jerusalem Syndrome, which probably comes from too much religion; many patients believe they are John the Baptist, Jesus Christ, or some other biblical character.
She reveals the motivations of an influential Jew who created a Holocaust falsehood and turned it into “accepted fact.” The iconic “Nazi hunter” Simon Wiesenthal invented a Holocaust myth out of nothing, and the President of the United States and influential elites ended up repeating it “as the truth.” When closely analyzed, her book actually vindicates what mainstream “Final Solution” historian Christopher Browning revealed years ago: the Eichmann testimonies, pillars of the traditional Holocaust story, are grossly unreliable pieces of evidence that do not prove a thing. Finally, she showed how Israel conducted a highly successful propaganda trial that skillfully employed the mass media to firmly implant the Holocaust ideology in the public consciousness of the West (p. 193).
“Czech Jews are now being sent from the notorious Terezin fortress-ghetto to areas near the Eastern front. Everyone between the ages of 18 and 45 is made to work on the building of fortifications. There is evidence that Czech Jews had been working on fortifications within 35 miles of Stalingrad.” [27]
There are many, even dedicated critics of Zionism and Israel, who reject the findings of Holocaust revisionism for this reason. They say it is just not believable that Israel and Jewish-Zionist groups could make most of the world accept the traditional Holocaust story as a “well established fact” if it actually were a falsehood. Surely, if it were false, it would have been exposed a long time ago by a multitude non-Jewish governments and researchers. This viewpoint is mistaken, as it ignores some salient facts.
On Jan. 16, 1985, under cross-examination at the first Ernst Zündel trial in Toronto, Raul Hilberg confirmed that he said these words.[5] Thus, Hilberg states that the so-called Holocaust was not carried out by a written order or plan, but rather by an incredible mind reading among far-flung German bureaucrats.
“Advanced interrogation” techniques have been a feature of democratic states to the present time, although it is the Third Reich, and specifically the Gestapo, that have become synonymous with torture. Torture was used on a wide scale after the war by the Allies to extract confessions from German prisoners. The trial of the defendants of the “Malmedy massacre” was notable for the interrogation techniques. The defendants had been accused of shooting American soldiers who had surrendered during the Battle of the Bulge in Belgium. Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. Royall established a tribunal to investigate allegations of torture that had been brought to the attention of Senator Joseph McCarthy. The tribunal was headed by Gordon Simpson of the Texas Supreme Court, with Leroy van Roden, Pennsylvania judge, and Lieutenant Colonel Charles W. Lawrence of the U.S. Army.34 The Simpson Commission recommended the commutation of all death sentences of the Malmedy defendants.35 While the Simpson Commission report was “bland,” van Roden returned to the USA fully endorsing the allegations that interrogators had subjected the defendants to beatings, including “blows to the genitals,” threats of hanging during interrogations, and refusal of water.36 Willis M. Everett, appointed by the U.S. Army as chief defense counsel, was uneasy about the number of Jews who were involved in the war crimes process.37
There are two challenging questions for any Hollywood director seeking to lens Prof. Lipstadt’s courtroom battle and maintain minimal credibility at the same time: why she never took the stand, and why no “Holocaust survivor” was brought to testify by her defense team. According to Denial, Lipstadt (played by Rachel Weisz), was forbidden to testify by her lawyers, who wanted to keep the focus on putting Irving (Timothy Spall) on the defensive, and not her. It makes sense, but whether it is true or not we can’t determine. After all, Lipstadt refused to speak to the news media during the long trial (a fact the movie omits). The latter refusal would seem to indicate a fear of exposure of her ignorance of World War II history. Meanwhile, Mr. Irving was extensively cross-examined in court and spoke volubly to the press on nearly every occasion.
Kershaw then cites a mysterious meeting between Hitler and Himmler in mid-July, during which the former “effectively…placed the ‘Jewish Question’…directly in Himmler’s hands” (p. 469). After this, we are to believe that Hitler was content to speak only of deportations, removals, and evacuations, all of which allegedly reconfirmed the implicit genocide command. When Hitler is quoted as saying, “Where the Jews are sent to, whether to Siberia or Madagascar, is immaterial,” Kershaw offers an amazing response: “The frame of mind [here] was overtly genocidal. The reference to Madagascar was meaningless.” Evacuation to Siberia was “genocide of a kind” (p. 471). But never mind this; as of July 1941, “no decision for the ‘Final Solution’—meaning the physical extermination of the Jews throughout Europe—had yet been taken. But genocide was in the air.”
It is therefore certain that the SS were not searching for prisoners from the "Sonderkommando", either at Birkenau, nor at Mauthausen, and this is explained by the simple fact that these prisoners were not the bearers of any "terrible secret".
Jewish groups tend to concur with such analogies, since they lend legitimacy to their own position. This fact was not lost on legal minds including Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz, who, in unison with Massachusetts State Representative Rachel Kaprielian, used the controversy as a opportunity to buttress the foundations of “the Holocaust Industry.” Dershowitz and Kaprielian wrote,
The historian Eric Conan, co-author with Henry Rousso of Vichy: an Ever-Present Past, wrote in L'Express that I was right in affirming, in the late 1970s, that the gas chamber at Auschwitz visited by millions of tourists was completely fake. He specified: “Everything in it is false [...]. In the late 1970s, Robert Faurisson exploited these falsifications all the better as the museum administration balked at acknowledging them.” Continuing, he added: “[Some people] like Theo Klein [prefer that the gas chamber be left] in its present state, while explaining the misrepresentation to the public: ‘History is what it is; it suffices to tell it, even when it is not simple, rather than to add artifice to artifice’.” Conan reported a staggering remark by the deputy director of the Auschwitz National Museum who, for her part, could not resolve to explain the misrepresentation to the public. He wrote: “Krystina Oleksy [...] can’t bring herself to do so: ‘For the time being [the room designated as a gas chamber] is to be left “as is,” with nothing specified to the visitor. It’s too complicated. We’ll see to it later on’” (“Auschwitz: la mémoire du mal”, January 19-25, 1995, p. 68). In 1996 and in 2001 other authors, despite being hostile to revisionism, were in their turn to denounce, in France and abroad, the fraud made up by that alleged gas chamber. Today tourists and pilgrims still go on being fooled there, although I have personally alerted UNESCO itself[18] of this persistence in fraud.
By the time the messy business of execution and disposal of remains had been concluded, the Trial of the Century presented the world with eleven dead Germans and three major conclusions. First of these was that it had punished aggression. The Nazis were aggressive. The Nazis were expansionist. The Nazis were to blame for World War Two. Secondly, it had punished tyranny. Nazi Germany had been a dictatorship, in which no recourse was made to the views of the people. It had assumed and consolidated power and imprisoned opponents. It had been totalitarian, ruthless and oppressive. Finally, the tribunal had punished ‘racism’. The Nazis had subscribed to racial ideology. They wanted to secure a future and land for the Nordic people. And rather than just moaning about it, like many before them, they had actively sought an answer to the ‘Jewish question’, through increasingly extreme means.
[17] Mattogno, Carlo, Auschwitz: The End of a Legend, Newport Beach, Cal.: The Institute for Historical Review, 1994, p. 32.
Or, of course, to be in the care of the victorious occupiers, which witnesses for the tribunals in fact were. Admission to the exclusive society of witness/victims of Nazi war crimes was not only a bounteous meal ticket, it was a ticket also to warm clothing and shelter that sported something rarely found in the private homes that still stood in Germany: heat. Quite aside from their other agendas, articulate, imaginative people who could pass themselves off as former concentration-camp victims flocked to the doors of the tribunals and clamored for admission as witnesses. They literally competed with each other with tales of unspeakable atrocities and details that horrified not only those sitting on the tribunals, but even those accused of the atrocities, who had never seen nor even imagined such deeds as they were now being judged for having committed.
It is an undeniable fact that the large masses of Soviet prisoners of war who filled the German camps after the beginning of the Russian campaign were subject to scrutiny of their political background by the SD (Sicherheitsdienst, Security Service). Soviet functionaries, political commissars of the Red Army (Politruks) and other “carriers of the Soviet ideology“ were sorted out and sent to the nearest concentration camp to be shot.[37] Such executions occurred at Sachsenhausen as well.
Christian Gerlach, Wendy Lower and Götz Aly are not the only exterminationists who have made mention of concrete plans for the deportation of Reich Jews to Belarus and the Ukraine. Holocaust historian Dieter Pohl describes the pre-Barbarossa plans thus:
It’s clear that Kounio has no idea how a gas chamber works, real or imaginary. Any indispensable, efficient gas-chamber ventilation would have been mechanical in nature. To start it, no vents had to be opened, only electric motors had to be switched on. And any execution gas chamber would have had to be ventilated out a long time before any door could have been opened safely. Even in case of the ground-floor rooms of Crematoria IV + V that purportedly served as homicidal gas chambers, their wall openings allegedly used to both throw in Zyklon B and to ventilate the rooms afterwards were closed with wooden shutters that were operated from the outside.
In attempting to deny revisionists and “Holocaust deniers” legitimate status, denigrators conveniently attempt to equate them with racists and neo-Nazis. Marginalized and consigned to the “lunatic fringe,” revisionists struggle to achieve parity with non-suspect historians and researchers. Reminiscent of the McCarthy era, revisionists are suspected of harboring politically incorrect opinions. The fact that Holocaust denial laws purposefully target individuals prejudged as holding unorthodox political views or individuals suspected of anti-Semitic tendencies underscores the discriminatory basis for such laws. Thus, as the laws now stand, it is impossible for revisionist historians to profess their belief in the Holocaust per se, simply due to the fact that they, unlike “accepted” authors such as Arno Mayer, Raul Hilberg, Jean-Claude Pressac, Robert Jan van Pelt, etc., are considered to be politically suspect or in some way ideologically motivated. Nevertheless, it may be considered an established fact that Holocaust revisionists are not necessarily ‘Holocaust deniers.’
Some of the other Soviet front-line troops shared Solzhenitsyn’s attitude toward the proper treatment of German women. Many of these Soviet first-echelon troops were more concerned with fighting and survival than with rape and revenge. However, most of the second-echelon Soviet troops were from Asiatic Russia and brought with them attitudes toward conquered people inherited from Genghis Khan. Other second-echelon troops were members of penal battalions or were ex-prisoners from the German concentration camps who had been freed by the Red Army and sent to the front. These soldiers who formed the second wave of troops were regarded even by their comrades as utterly rapacious.[5]
In response, a statement put out by the Vatican said: "Bishop Williamson, in order to be admitted to the Episcopal functions of the Church, must in an absolutely unequivocal and public way distance himself from his positions regarding the Shoah [Holocaust]." Then, German Chancellor Angela Merkel told the Pope: "The Pope and the Vatican must make absolutely clear that there can be no denial of the Holocaust." But Bishop Williamson would not recant. He instead declared that: "If I find this proof, then I will correct myself. But that will require some time" and added an apology for the "distress" he had caused the pope, regretting that his comments had been ‘imprudent.’
This was confirmed in 1945 by two employees of the Tesch Company: August Marcinkowski said that in March 1940 he carried our a fumigation at Auschwitz using 120 kg of Zyklon B.[6] Hans Willy Max Rieck stated that another fumigation was carried out in early summer 1941.[7] The delivery of November 1941 was therefore probably one of the first deliveries.
(1) Soviet-Polish investigation (1944). Conducted shortly after the Russians captured the camp in August 1944, this team found three mass graves, with a grand total of some 300 corpses. Based on this scant evidence, the team declared the camp “an enormous death combine,” a “death factory,” and announced that “about three million” died there.[60] This study holds little credence, for obvious reasons.
The folder accompanying the exhibition entitled Les Fusillades Massives en Ukraine (1941-1944): La Shoah par Balles, (The Mass Shootings in Ukraine (1941-1944): The Shoah by Bullets), held at Paris on 20-30 June 2007, supplies the following information in this regard:
[14] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, pp. 127-128.
“SIR DAVID MAXWELL-FYFE: You heard what I read to you about Hitler, what he said to Horthy and what Ribbentrop said, that the Jews must be exterminated or taken to concentration camps. Hitler said the Jews must either work or be shot. That was in April 1943. Do you still say that neither Hitler nor you knew of this policy to exterminate the Jews?
• Prenons un autre exemple, celui de 2 enfants (Michael et Josef Salomonowicz, Il et 6 ans à leur arrivée à Auschwitz) et de leur mère; nous avons vu dans « La liquidation du ghetto de Lodz »[3] que tous trois avaient été déportés de Lodz à Auschwitz où, selon la vulgate exterminationniste, ils furent gazés et incinérés; en réalité, le lecteur a pu se convaincre de ce qu’ils avaient été réinstallés à Danzig et qu’ils avaient survécu à la guerre. Et que lit-on dans la banque à leur sujet?
Even if only a thousand corpses were to be burned daily in the open air, roughly 300 cubic meters (about 100 cords, or 30 truckloads) of dry wood would have to be brought to the sites for each load of bodies, and a site of over 100 meters in length would be blocked for at least a week because the ash retains the heat for a long time and cannot be handled right away for the operations of crushing residual bones and removing gold teeth that have been reported in the literature. Also, enough space around the sites would have to be made available, not only for the considerable activity associated with the building phase of the pyre, but also because, in the initial phase of the cremation itself, the heat radiation is so strong that a minimum distance of something like 100 feet on all sides would have to be maintained. This means that only insignificant numbers of corpses could have been burnt in spaces like the small area behind Crematorium V.
It is arguable, of course, that the Polish report simply confused ‘gas’ with ‘steam’, however such reasoning would fail to account for the fact that later on in the same document, it explains the building and operation of these steam chambers in considerable detail. ‘The second building consists of three chambers and a boiler room’ it says, ‘The steam generated in the boilers is led by means of pipes to the chambers…’[28]
Bishop Williamson correctly expressed this viewpoint when he stated in an interview: “I must now review the historical evidence [for the Holocaust doctrine] once again. I said the same thing in my interview with Swedish television: Historical evidence is at issue, not emotions. And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time.”[21]
The main camp held one crematorium; the larger Birkenau had four. Now, we need to be clear: There is nothing ominous about a prisoner camp having crematoria. Any such facility designed to hold thousands of people will experience many deaths—from natural causes, if nothing else. The Germans knew this, and built the camps accordingly. A crematorium building needs furnaces in which to burn the corpses, and it needs rooms to serve as temporary morgues; these would hold the bodies prior to actual cremation. When possible, the morgue rooms would be underground (cooler), but then connected to the furnace facility via some means of transporting bodies. Lacking underground morgues, open chambers adjoining the furnace room would suffice.
It surprises me, even now, that I met Bradley “face-to-face” only on one occasion, when we shared a room at David Irving’s first Real History Conference in Cincinnati back in 1999.  It was a marvelous weekend with Bradley speaking on the subject of “Memory.”  While the supposed target of the talk were Holocaust “eyewitnesses,” Bradley seemed challenged with his own memory.  Was it an act?  A writer’s joke?  I thought it all quite funny, but noticed that our host David Irving seemed not at all amused.
It took the Dachau tribunal only 90 minutes to convict all 40 defendants. Joshua Greene writes: “Even if history looked back and judged his work charitably, Denson might have imagined one hour and 30 minutes to be a shockingly short time in which to determine the fate of 40 men.”[19]
“I do not want the court to feel that it is necessary to establish individual acts of misconduct to show guilt or innocence. If he participated in this common design, as evidence has shown, it is sufficient to establish his guilt.”
Sadly, once again, we see the Jewish Holocaust reduced to large numbers in small places, and usually for ideological rather than historical purposes, such that millions of Jewish lives are written off the ledger and ascribed to a simplistic calculation of Nazi, and then German, evil. A deeper analysis of the vicissitudes of the suffering of the Jewish people in Eastern Europe appears to be not only beyond Professor Snyder’s ken, it remains so for all Holocaust historians.
Deborah Lipstadt and others stated that the Holocaust was by definition about Jews exclusively, because that is how they define it.
And yet, pundits, seers, experts, and charlatans regularly attain high incomes in our society from propounding just such “information” concerning the factors and causes of recent past events, even while in many cases venturing with varying degrees of assurance predictions as to what the purported present set of circumstances portends for those of us who managed to survive the just-past debacle. Taleb explores such mass—and massive—gullibility somewhat tentatively, likely because Taleb is not a psychologist (nor a pundit, seer, expert, nor charlatan), but rather, a former securities trader who first hit it big in 1987 with contrarian positions that paid off enormously on the 23% swoon of the stock market that occurred in that year. It appears Taleb may again have scored in the 2008 financial crisis, if on no other evidence than that, in this book’s first edition (2007), he very clearly anticipated those developments in telling detail. This review concerns the book’s second edition (2010), which includes a 96-page “Postscript Essay” that to my reckoning embodies something close to half the value of the overall work, at least for revisionists. In it, Taleb dwells but little on past events that he can well claim to have predicted (he sniffs that he is more interested in future events than in past events, but this still leaves over a good deal of useful insight as to the less-favored direction of the arrow of time—the one of primary interest to revisionists).
If it is insulting to Jews to claim that the Holocaust never occurred, could it not be argued that it is insulting to Germans to claim that it did? Indeed, if Holocaust denial is to be forbidden on the grounds that its effect will be to stir up hatred against Jews, might not Holocaust affirmation be forbidden on the grounds that it will stir up hatred against Germans?[10]
In his book on the Holocaust in Latvia, Bernhard Press provides the following brief summary of a testimony left by a certain M. Morein which is stored in the archive of the Jewish Information Center in Riga:
The defendants at the International Military Tribunal for the Far East. Photo May-June 1946
“But if that were true, how come huge amounts of cyanides did accumulate in the walls of the disinfestation chambers?”
Ironically, while criticizing Adler for not backing up his assertion, Holocaust historians like Karny are completely unable to provide any documentary proof of the alleged homicidal gas chambers in which these deportees were supposedly killed. The only one of their conclusions which is acceptable is thus that these five trains were sent to Treblinka—but from this does not follow that the Jews in the convoys were killed there.
Soon the chairman was again comparing Holocaust denial to saying that no Australian troops were killed on the Burma Railway, and I was able to make an important point about that: “I am not aware of any significant body of historians of academic and intellectual quality who are making any denials about the Australian activities in the Burma railroad et cetera and, therefore I am afraid that comparison is quite irrelevant. But there is such a body making these sorts of comments about the Holocaust. Some of them are in jail in certain countries and I feel that this legislation is at least a step in the direction of putting Australian intellectuals who are dissidents in gaol.”[79]
In fact, the Holocaust itself, from the supposed code language of the Nazis to the complete erasure of the traces of the crime, fits much more with the concept of a conspiracy theory. Regardless, what is the purpose of this denialist “conspiracy theory”?
In response to the question, what is Holocaust denial, it is difficult to provide an exact definition due to the legal complexities surrounding the issue, as legislative definitions vary from country to country just as they vary from one individual to another.
The authorities maintaining the Auschwitz camp indeed ultimately responded by revising the numbers downward. Suddenly the four million murdered dropped to an official figure of a little over a million. This is where the overall Holocaust story underwent another major evolution. In this latest twist, the Six Million figure somehow was retained - relating to a sort of mystic symbolism that seemingly has to be retained at all costs - and a shifting of how the figure was arrived at occurred. Suddenly the 3 million Jews killed within that 6 million figure, perished 'in the east' with little explanation and no statistical backing. While the Einsatzgruppen or ‘action groups’ (or ‘squads’) has grown in its significance the typical estimate of victims of these groups are between 1.3 and 2.2 million. As the story continues to shift and evolve it appears that the missing “victims” may yet be attributed to the Einsatzgruppen or even the German army.
“After that, at Zündel's expense, he [Leuchter] left for Poland with a secretary (his wife), a draftsman, a video-cameraman and an interpreter. He came back and drew up a 192-page report (including appendices). He also brought back 32 samples taken, on the one hand, from the crematories of Auschwitz and Birkenau at the site of the homicidal ‘gassings’ and, on the other hand, in a disinfection gas chamber at Birkenau. His conclusion was simple: there had never been any homicidal gassings at Auschwitz, Birkenau, or Majdanek.
On 1 October 1943, SS-Obersturmführer Werner Jothann, just having taken over for Bischoff as head of the Zentralbauleitung[135], drew up a “Cost Estimate on the Expansion of the Waffen-SS POW Camp at Auschwitz”, in which, for every Bauwerk already constructed or planned the cost estimate was calculated. For the sector of construction projects III (Bauabschnitt III), denominated “Häftlingslazarett” (inmate hospital), the following structures, among other things, were added: 114 barracks for sick patients (at a cost of 4,542,216 Reichsmark), the 4 disinfestation barracks (80,940 RM), 11 infirmary barracks (103,488 RM) and the 12 barracks for the seriously ill (515,625), mentioned above[136]:
Will Douglas escape condemnation, when even Jewish Leftists such as Sack and Finkelstein have not, for his having, no doubt inadvertently, ‘relativised the Holocaust’?[21] Orderly and Humane is unlikely to directly challenge Zionism and Israel, unlike the late (d. 2004) Sack’s An Eye for an Eye[22] which directs attention to the role played by Jews in the NKVD and concentration camps, thereby casting doubt on the Jewish status as history’s most martyred; while Finkelstein’s Holocaust Industry focuses directly on how Jews individually and collectively have profited from the ‘Holocaust’. Another problem for Sack, acknowledged as a ‘founder of literary journalism’,[23] is that his book exposes the role of Israel in protecting these Jewish murderers under the ‘Law of Return’ and refusing to extradite them to face trial, while, as is well known, Organised Jewry and Israel have been relentless in pursuing alleged ‘war criminals’. Sack’s exposé of Jewish culpability in post-war atrocities brought allegations against him from Deborah Lipstadt that he was a ‘worse than a Holocaust denier’, Lipstadt’s claim to academic fame being that she seems to have coined the widely used but – from a scholarly viewpoint – useless, terms ‘Holocaust denial’ and ‘Holocaust denier’,[24] the present-day equivalents to ‘Witch’ or ‘Heretic’.[25] Hence, Sack had the following exchange with Lipstadt , where it is apparent that she was referring to what she calls ‘relativising the Holocaust’:
The deportation of Jews from Hungary did not begin until May 1944. Since the German-controlled areas in the east were shrinking at a rapid rate during that year, it is extremely unlikely that any of the Hungarian Jews deported to Auschwitz-Birkenau ever reached the occupied eastern territories[15], with two exceptions: 1) a transport of some thousand Hungarian women which was sent to Latvia, and of which approximately 700 were later transferred by ship from Kaunas to Stutthof on 4 August 1944;[16] 2) a transport of 500 Hungarian women, possibly from the Transylvanian town of Bistritz (Bistriţa) that arrived in the Estonian camp Vaivara in June 1944.[17] It is not impossible that the latter group consisted of a subset of the first group, as one source states the Jewesses from Bistritz arrived via Riga.[18] Two further special cases of Hungarian or nominally Hungarian Jews reaching the east already in 1941 will be discussed below in Section 3.3.3.
Another example of false witness testimony of the so-called Holocaust occurred in the case of Frank Walus, who was a retired Chicago factory worker charged with killing Jews in his native Poland during World War II. An accusation by Simon Wiesenthal that Walus had worked for the Gestapo prompted the U.S. government’s legal action. Eleven Jews testified under oath during Walus’s trial that Walus had murdered Jews during the war. After a costly four-year legal battle, Walus was finally able to prove that he had spent the war years as a teenager working on German farms. An American Bar Association article published in 1981 concluded in regard to Walus’s trial that “…in an atmosphere of hatred and loathing verging on hysteria, the government persecuted an innocent man.”[2]
Soon a collaboration developed between Wexner and Steven Spielberg, whose own Shoah Foundation was deeply engaged in taking survivors’ testimonies. This collaboration resulted in the effective solicitation of a number of $100,000 dollar contributors. Bill Lowenberg, a survivor who lived in San Francisco, whose daughter—a participant in the Wexner programs—had briefed him on the case, called [Rabbi Herbert] Friedman. He said he would raise 20% of the costs and began to contact members of the Bay Area Jewish community. Ernie Michel, a survivor who lived in New York, took out his Rolodex and began to call other survivors. Other people pitched in to help. All of this was done quietly and without any publicity or fanfare...[6]
Black writes that Auschwitz was a labor camp, a transit camp, as well as an extermination camp where Jews were immediately exterminated in gas chambers upon arrival (p. 351). The forensic evidence, however, refutes the possibility of homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. Reports, articles, testimony, books and videos from Fred Leuchter, Walter Lüftl, Germar Rudolf, Friedrich Paul Berg, Dr. William B. Lindsey, Carlo Mattogno, John C. Ball, Dr. Arthur Butz, Dr. Nicholas Kollerstrom, Wolfgang Fröhlich, Richard Krege and David Cole have conclusively shown that there were no homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz-Birkenau. The books The Real Case for Auschwitz by Carlo Mattogno[8] and The Chemistry of Auschwitz by Germar Rudolf[9] are probably the best books available for anyone wanting to make a thorough study of this subject.
Yehuda Bauer of Israel's Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum even repudiated the proposition that there were several million non-Jewish deaths in German concentration camps, pinning the blame for the legend of the “5 million” on Simon Wiesenthal.
The absurd story which, according to him, had been reported by several men from the "Sonderkommando", according to which "in Crematorium V, the trucks unloaded the victims directly, while they were still alive, in the pits, which were burning under the open sky"[188], similarly originates from two of Olère’s drawings, not published in Venezia’s book. These bear the following caption: "SS throwing live children in a burning pit (Bunker 2/V)". The two drawings (the first and the draft of the second) show the rear part of a truck on the edge of a burning ‘cremation pit’; the large hopper, full of children, is tilting towards the pit and from the hopper an SS man, also on the edge of the pit, is grabbing the children and throwing them in; another soldier, also on the edge of the pit, salutes with a stiff arm. In reality, the two soldiers, because of the heat radiated by the bonfire, would have been burnt alive, while the gas tank of the truck would have exploded in a few minutes.
Lastly, we must ask why Alfred Naujocks’s IMT affidavits mention only two “false flag” sites (Gleiwitz and Hohenlinden) while the IMT and postwar accounts of other suspected actors in this hoax (e.g., Lahousen and Mehlhorn) mention three sites, one of which is incorrect (Hochlinden)? Is this because the IMT “evidence” and postwar “history” had to match Hitler’s actual 1 September proclamation, wherein he casually mentioned three sites and not just two? It sure makes one wonder, especially since Hitler failed to name them specifically. Indeed, he failed to exploit any of them as his casus belli. Instead, he and Dr. Goebbels’s propaganda machine exploited the Bromberg Massacre (which took place two days after the invasion on 3 September) and other alleged Polish atrocities and persecutions against German minorities residing in Poland. Just check out the book Die polnischen Greueltaten an den Volksdeutschen in Polen: Im Auftrage des Auswärtigen Amtes auf Grund urkundlichen Beweismaterials zusammengestellt, bearbeitet und herausgegeben. What’s more, the British already knew Hitler’s real casus belli, which is featured in the secret Whitehall Report.
Photo 19: Crematorium in summer 1944.
As for people who had by any chance been spared accusation, anyone who claimed enough knowledge to question the accusations faced the immediate prospect of joining the ranks of the accused on the strength of whatever involvement the claims of knowledge would necessarily be based upon. The only way out of that trap was to be documentably, unambiguously a victim of the process, and the number of victims who in any concerted way contested the tribunals’ horrific charges can be counted on the fingers of one hand.[2] Victims who might in any way fail vigorously and credibly to confirm the tribunals’ charges were in any case scrupulously deselected by the hard-working teams of prosecutors who alone had the power to call witnesses from the eager pool of would-be “victims” who by right of their selection to testify, won precious food and heated (!) shelter for the durations of the proceedings.
Meanwhile his colleague Eichmann lived in Argentina until the day in 1960 when he was kidnapped by the Mossad and taken by force to Israel to be found guilty at the end of a judicial farce even worse than that of Nuremberg. In the investigatory phase of his case, examining magistrate Avner Less, a captain in the Israeli Army, asked Eichmann whether he had any comments on the statements made about him by Höttl, and the response was: “Yes indeed! Höttl’s allegations are a hotchpotch of muddles that the man has stuffed his head with” (Jawohl! Die Angaben von Höttl, das ist ein von Sammelsurium von Durcheinander, das der Mann seinen Kopf bekommen hat; see Jochen von Lang, Das Eichmann-Protokoll, Berlin, Severin und Siedler, 1982, p. 107). Eichmann then pointed out that the advent, after the war, of millions of survivors belied the possibility that there had existed any programme of physical extermination of the Jews. He stated, for example, on the next page: “Captain, after the war the Allies nonetheless counted – I think – 2.4 million Jews. And hundreds and hundreds of thousands of Jews came out of the concentration camps” (Herr Hauptmann, da sind immerhin – glaube ich – wie gesagt, es sind 2.4 Millionen von den nach Allierten Kriegsschluss gezählt worden. Und Hunderttausende von Juden kamen aus den Konzentrationslagern). When, for his part, he employed the word “Vernichtung” regarding the Jews, he had in mind the annihilation of the Jews’ power (in the framework of the search for a possible “final territorial solution to the Jewish question”) and not the sense that the translators like to give that word, that is, “physical extermination” (p. 110).
Despite its injustice, William Denson refused to acknowledge that the legal concept of common design should not apply in this case. Denson stated: “I do not want the court to feel that it is necessary to establish individual acts of misconduct to show guilt or innocence. If he participated in this common design, as evidence has shown, it is sufficient to establish his guilt.”[13]
For 1942, Setkiewicz mentions two travel permits for a 5-ton truck from Auschwitz to Dessau in order to pick up Zyklon B. The first travel permit of 22 July was about “gas for the gassing of the camp for the fight against the epidemic that has occurred” (“Gas zur Vergasung des Lagers, zur Bekämpfung der aufgetretenen Seuche”) (p. 70). This confirms the use of the term “Vergasung” (gassing) in the context of pest control, as I pointed out earlier.
The pro-Zionist Catholic theologian, Harry James Cargas, drew a similar conclusion: “The Holocaust is, in my judgment, the greatest tragedy for Christians since the crucifixion. In the first instance, Jesus died; in the latter, Christianity may be said to have died.”[9]
To fully assess the reliability of Kula as a witness, it is worthwhile to also consider his last testimony known to me, which he gave during the trial against the Auschwitz camp garrison a few months after the Höss Trial. During that testimony, he did not mention the columns at all. But among other things, he stated the following:[12]
On 24 September 1942, a total of 1,594 Romanian Jews were arrested in the Paris region and detained at the Drancy collection camp. On the following day 729 of them were deported to Auschwitz on Convoy 37, which consisted of in all 1,004 deportees. At Kosel, some 100 km west of Auschwitz, 175 men from the convoy were selected for work. The transport is reported to have arrived at Auschwitz on 27 September. Upon arrival, another 40 men were selected for work, whereas the rest of the deportees were immediately "gassed". On 28 September 1942 Convoy 38 departed with 856 Jews on board; 594 of them were of Romanian nationality. Of the Jews from this transport some 685 were "gassed" on arrival at Auschwitz on 29 September.[176]
For six days in October 1999 the team carefully examined the entire Treblinka site, especially the alleged “mass-graves” portion, and carried out control examinations of surrounding areas. Krege’s team also carried out visual soil inspections, and used an auger to take numerous soil samples. They found no soil disturbance consistent with the burial of hundreds of thousands of bodies, nor even evidence that the ground had ever been disturbed. In addition, the team found no evidence of individual graves, bone remains, human ashes, nor wood ashes. Richard Krege concluded from his examination of the site that Treblinka was never an extermination camp.[20]
Whether or not the Polish position vis-à-vis the disputed territories is legitimate or not, Polish authorities still have an ulterior vested interest in promoting the Holocaust ideology. Although Germany and Poland are presently at peace, there is a history of hostility between them. The two countries have quarreled bitterly over war damages, past suffering, and the rights of an estimated 3 million ethnic Germans expelled as Poland became a Soviet communist satellite.[79] After the unification of Germany, the issue of lands ceded to Poland after the war was again raised in Germany.[80]
Document 28 shows the connection of the motor to the air-blower Type 450 in the future Crematorium II.
In 2008 Father Desbois’s account of his work, Porteur de mémoires : Sur les traces de la Shoah par balles, appeared in its English translation as The Holocaust by Bullets: A Priest’s Journey to Uncover the Truth behind the Murder of 1.5 Million Jews.[4] One must wonder if any normally endowed person perusing this exposé could still seriously entertain the veracity of the Shoah. Inter alia, it recounts uncritically what we consider metaphysical phenomena and proffers unsubstantiated assertions designed to convey a picture of diabolically sadistic murderers intent on maximizing the suffering of their victims. The book amounts to an extended diatribe of hatred toward Germans.
In time he was relocated to the “children’s barrack in Camp D” (so, it obviously was not quite true that “children…were taken directly to the gas chambers”). Buergenthal explains that the children were useful for garbage collection. On one of his trash runs he found his mother in the women’s camp. Not long afterward, he “heard that a large number of women, including [his] mother, had been sent to another camp in Germany” (p. 84). Odd that, in an alleged extermination camp, large numbers of Jews would be shipped elsewhere. And back to Germany, of all places!
Student editors who are not Jewish, while they experience all the above, must face the additional burden of being slandered as “anti-Semites” and “haters.” I understand why many are unwilling or even afraid to shoulder the burden that the ideal of a free press places on journalists with regard to the gas-chamber controversy. Yet without a free press there are no universities worthy of the name, no government that is not tyrannical, and no society that is not a burden on the lives of its citizens.
This is a rather strange thing to say about Blobel, who had absolutely no competence in the field of cremation. As I have remarked above, at the time, according to Holocaust historiography, the Topf & Söhne company, the most important German builder of crematory ovens at the time, and its head engineer, Kurt Prüfer, an extremely highly qualified specialist in cremation, rendered their services at Auschwitz, concurrently with the extermination of the Jews. Notwithstanding this fact, the SS, for the huge task of cremating hundreds of thousands of bodies, instead of consulting real cremation specialists — particularly Prüfer himself or his colleague, Fritz Sander, certified engineer and designer, in October 1942, of a "Crematory furnace for bodies, capable of continuous functioning and intended for mass use" (Kontinuierlich arbeitender Leichen-Verbrennungsofen für Massenbetrieb),[52] is said to have had recourse to a poor semi-drunken derelict, who, as Desbois himself remarks, had "never even studied architecture," as he later declared at Nuremberg during the Einsatzgruppen trial, but had simply attended a "state technical school at Barmen-Eberfeld, where he began a half-year [course of study], during the winter of 1913-1914, before joining the army."[53]
“He [Hess] had personally issued a circular telegram to all the gauleiters in November 1938 halting the outrages of the Kristallnacht. He had participated in none of the secret Hitler conferences in 1938 and 1939. As the British well knew, Hess had tried to stop the war and to end the bombing. He had left Germany before the attack on Russia in June 1941 and before the onset of what would in the 1970s become known as the Holocaust. There seemed little real reason to inscribe Hess’s name on any list of war criminals.”
Now according to the Holocaust historians and the august Sanskrit scholar Dr. Christian Lindtner, the Germans murdered more than two million Jews in the Soviet Union alone. This figure is about 140 times higher than the combined toll for Katyn and Winnitza. Surely the Soviets followed the German example and flew in international commissions to repay their adversaries for the shame of Katyn and Winnitza, with interest? Surely at the Nuremberg trial they showed films about the exhumation of hundreds of thousands of bodies? No, they did not.
Viewed in the light of what Christopher Browning and Deborah Lipstadt have written on the credibility of the Eichmann testimonials, Irving’s theory is not an attempt to “explain or rationalize away” evidence that refutes his theories. Contrary to what Evans charged, Irving’s theory is a logical inference and a plausible hypothesis: Eichmann may have concocted a phony Hitler order for the mass murder of Europe’s Jews as a desperate effort to avoid hanging.
At one point the guide mentioned the total Auschwitz death count as roughly 1 million Jews and thousands of others. I caught up to her and asked if the toll wasn’t previously claimed to be 4 million. (Microphone off.) Yes, she said, but better research in the 1980s and 1990s had confirmed the new, lower figure. Any chance it would be lowered still in the future?, I asked. Unlikely, she said.
A condensed version of this report appeared in the December 1942 issue of Contemporary Jewish Record, cf. §3.7.2 for commentary. By the beginning of October 1942 a total of 18,650 French Jews had been “gassed” at Auschwitz, i.e. transited east.[74] The deportations from France were then halted for a month until the beginning of 4 November 1942. Could this temporary stop in transports possibly have been due to the catastrophe described in the above news report? Needless to say it stands to reason that all these Jews cannot have been sent to Bessarabia in one single convoy, as implied by the article.
[11] Berg, Friedrich Paul, “The Diesel Gas Chamber: Ideal for Torture—Absurd for Murder,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, pp. 454-456.
Venezia is referring to two Germans who were at the door of the gas chamber[189]: why precisely two? Because the related drawing by D. Olère shows—you guessed it—two Germans[190].
The other, underlying vast web of cruelty and fear, deception and prevarication, injustice and murder, is present only between the lines—in fact, between every pair of lines. These invisible lines constitute the blood-soaked cloth from which is cut the shapes from which the shroud of the Holocaust is sewn, to hang, like the reeking skein of lies and calumny it is, over the consciences of all men, the German people first among us.
The Internet has offered some respite from the oppressive traditionalism, but even there all is not well. Consider Wikipedia—“the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit,” so they claim. However, “particularly sensitive pages” are considered “protected.” Evidently all pages relating to the Holocaust are in this category. The reader is invited to make changes to either the “Holocaust” or “Holocaust Denial” pages, to include any of the relevant names, sources, or issues mentioned above. Changes will be visible for a few hours, at most. At some point, an automatic ‘restore’ function will activate, erasing all unauthorized edits. So much for Internet freedom.
On the map drawn up by the surveyor Trautsolt in late 1945, Camp 2 is shown as an irregular quadrilateral with an area of approximately 14,000 square meters (1.4 hectares).[32] The mass graves of Rajchman covers a total area of at least (50 × 30 × 11 =) 16,500 square meters! Given that the pits must have been separated from each other by thick earth walls, their total area would completely have filled up Camp 2, even if its size instead was that indicated by the “Treblinka Death Camp Memorial Map”[33] drawn up by Peter Laponder, i.e. approximately 2 hectares. In other words, there would be no space left over in the Totenlager for the gas chambers or the “roasts” used to incinerate the victims.
This set of arguments challenging the official or received version of the history of the Sobibor camp could not be used to assist Demjanjuk. Commented Kues: ‘The defence, undoubtedly aware that any mention of said facts would run afoul of Germany’s laws against “Holocaust denial”, settled on the usual strategy: accepting the officially sanctioned version of events while insisting on the personal innocence of the defendant.’
So what can the “Vernichtung of the Jewish race” mean? On the standard view, of course, this means mass murder: literal genocide, the killing of every Jew. But there are two problems here. First, Vernichtung, along with the English equivalents ‘destruction’ and ‘extermination’, are inherently ambiguous. To ‘destroy’ is literally to ‘de-structure’ or ‘deconstruct’ (Latin: de-struere). To destroy an individual person or animal is to kill it, but to destroy a collective—a city, a nation, a race—is to ruin its structural coherence, and cause it to cease to exist as a collective entity.[10] This of course would happen if every individual member were killed, but it in no way demands this. Likewise with ‘extermination’, which means, literally, to ‘push beyond the boundaries’ (Latin: ex-terminus). To exterminate is simply to ‘get rid of completely’, by whatever means. And in fact the leading traditionalists evidently agree with these benign interpretations. Kershaw, for example, goes to great pains to argue that there was neither plan nor intention of mass murder prior to September 1941. Browning (2004: 371) comes to a similar conclusion.
The influential Simon Wiesenthal invented a historical fantasy, and the most powerful man on the planet, the president of the United States, ends up repeating it—a tribute to the ability of a Jewish-Zionist to propagate a myth! The reader should ask himself: how many millions of Americans believe the myth that the Germans murdered five million non-Jews because the President of the United States said that it was “true”? Ironically, in her 1993 anti-Revisionist tome she castigated Arthur Butz for claiming that Jews have the power to manipulate governments.[6] According to Lipstadt’s 2011 book, however, Wiesenthal’s Holocaust falsehood carried enough “moral” authority to manipulate the most powerful figure in the US government into being a mouthpiece for it!
Many nameless people were caught up in the annihilation machinery of the NKVD after the collapse of 1945. They were herded together like cattle after the so-called liberation and vegetated in the many concentration camps. Many were systematically tortured to death. A memorial was built for the dead of the Buchenwald Concentration Camp. A figure of death victims was chosen based on fantasy. Intentionally, only the dead of the 1937-1945 period were honored. Why is there no memorial honoring the dead of 1945 to 1950? Countless mass graves were dug around the camp in the postwar period.[5]
This question was answered in part on July 22, 1995, the day that revisionist historian Mark Weber squared off against anti-revisionist historian Dr. Michael Shermer in an oral debate on the Holocaust. Both sides were given a fair and equal opportunity to present their case, as the audience had the opportunity to hear defenses of both the Holocaust revisionist and the traditional view of the Holocaust.13
In 1985, German legislators appended Article 130 to the German Penal Code. The law ostensibly dealt with incitement to racial hatred, and contains no specific reference to “Holocaust denial” per se, yet “deniers” fell within the scope of this legislation, as it loosely interpreted “Holocaust denial” as an insult to the personal honor of Jewish people and prescribed that any person who denied, trivialized or expressed approval of, in public or in an assembly crimes attributed to the National Socialist regime, was liable to prosecution. The law was indisputably political in nature and stipulated that individuals who took umbrage at legally proscribed statements were entitled to register a complaint and file charges against persons or organizations that had given offense. For those convicted of violating it, the law decreed a prison term of up to one year in prison for any person unfortunate enough to run afoul of the new legislation.
While no one can know the exact number of inmates and deaths at Buchenwald, it is reasonably certain a higher percentage of inmates died under Soviet control than under German control. Viktor Suvorov estimates that 28,000 people were imprisoned by the Soviets at Buchenwald from 1945-1950, of whom 7,000 (25%) died. By comparison, he estimates that 250,000 people were imprisoned by the Germans at Buchenwald from 1937 to 1945. Of that number, Suvorov estimates that 50,000 (20%) died. The Soviet-run Buchenwald had a higher estimated death rate than the German-run Buchenwald.[6]
Characteristically Gerlach has tucked away his most important find in a footnote, wherein we learn that a preserved rationing coupon shows that “In October there were still at least 3,111 recipients of food rationing coupons in the so-called Russian Ghetto”.[59] This means that after at least 5,500-7,000 (but more likely some 7,500-9,000) Jews had been evacuated from Minsk and an unclear number of others shot, there were still at a minimum 3,111 Jews left in the main ghetto. How many more Jews could there have been in the “Sonderghetto” of the foreign Jews and in the city's labor camps and prisons? Gerlach's figures imply that there were at the very least some 10-12,000 Jews still present in Minsk at the beginning of September 1943. How does this fit with Kube's statement that only 8,600 Jews remained in Minsk at the end of July 1942?[60] The inconvenience that the evidence presented above causes mainstream historiography may be surmised by the fact that when Israeli historian Yitzhak Arad presented his comprehensive historiography on the holocaust in the occupied Soviet Union in 2009, he simply omitted most of it, asserting instead that on the eve of the liquidation there had lived only some 2-3,000 Jews in the Minsk Ghetto, of which some hundred managed to survive.[61]
In 1983, on April 26, the protracted case brought against me in 1979 came to an end, on appeal. The Paris court of appeal (1st Chamber, Section A), addressing each of the charges, declared that it had found in my writings on the gas chambers no trace of 1) levity, 2) negligence, 3) willful ignorance, 4) lying and that, consequently, “the appraisal of the findings [on the subject] defended by Mr. Faurisson is a matter, therefore, solely for experts, historians and the public”. It nonetheless held me liable for, in short, malevolence (?). The fact remains that, in authorizing a public debate on the existence or non-existence of the gas chambers, this decision was to lead our accusers to demand the creation of a specific law designed to harness the judges: thus was born the Fabius-Gayssot Act of July 13, 1990.
Let’s start at the beginning, with the documentary “Nazi Concentration and Prison Camps” that the Americans introduced during the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg in 1945 as proof of Nazi atrocities. Psychologically speaking, it was one of the most powerful pieces of evidence submitted, because a picture tells more than a thousand words. Here are some scenes about the Dachau Camp. Dachau was one of the first major camps the Americans captured toward the end of the war:[16]
Today in various countries in Europe it is not only illegal to question the official narrative of the Holocaust but also even to express doubt about aspects of the Nuremberg trials. The media even rage about collectors of Nazi-era art[12] and military memorabilia. The Austrian government sentenced one such collector to 10 months’ imprisonment for having just such a collection.[13]
Writing of Dönitz as the “last president of a united Germany,” Thompson’s opening lines were that the Third Reich was “the last heroic stand of Western Civilization,” and Hitler was “the last natural leader of Europe.” The Allied victory was a triumph for “the forces of Asiatic Communism and Russian Nationalism on the one hand, and Jewish Bolshevism (as exemplified by the United States, England, France and their multitude of last-minute vassals and hangers-on) on the other.” In the few weeks of April and May 1945 Dönitz unexpectedly became head of state and set up a Cabinet of military and technocratic personnel. He refused to denigrate Hitler, although it would have been opportune to do so, and sought to surrender to the Western allies, a primary concern being the fate of refugees fleeing from the east; a concern not shared by Eisenhower, et al., who refused the offer of a separate surrender without the USSR. Dönitz was sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment by the Nuremberg Tribunal, much to the outrage of many Allied military leaders. Although apolitical, he never forsook his oath to Hitler, a matter noted by co-defendant Albert Speer, who tried to ingratiate himself to the Allies during the Nuremberg proceedings.
[28] Kollerstrom, Nicholas. Breaking the Spell: The Holocaust, Myth and Reality, Uckfield, UK: Castle Hill Publishers, 2015, p. 70.
Defenders of the Holocaust story have attempted to discredit scientific reports which disprove the existence of homicidal gas chambers at German camps during World War II. For example, Deborah Lipstadt’s defense attorney, Richard Rampton, referred in court to The Leuchter Report as “…a piece of so-called research which is not worth the paper it is written on…”[1]
The same year that Hitler's Ten-Year War on the Jews was published by the American chapter of the World Jewish Congress, the International Labour Office in Montreal, Canada, published a study by the Jewish demographics professor Eugene M. Kulischer entitled The displacement of population in Europe.[26] As in the WJC survey, the deported Western Jews are described by Kulischer as being sent, not to certain death in "extermination centres", but to "the ghettos and labour camps in the German-occupied Eastern Territories".[27] Kulischer, however, had not succumbed to the black propaganda concerning "gas chambers", "steam chambers" and "electrocution", but instead maintained that "hundreds of thousands" of Polish Jews from the Generalgouvernement, including those evacuated from Warsaw, were also deported further east.[28] The writers of the Institute of Jewish Affairs[29], unlike Kulischer, probably felt an onus to produce a book which fit more or less with the war propaganda against Hitler's Germany that was being disseminated at the time by their superiors in the WJC, or which at least did not run counter to it. The result was a volume which delivers many interesting insights into the evolution of the Holocaust propaganda at a stage halfway between exaggerated reality and myth.
Fig. 1: Interior photograph taken from the ruins of Morgue 1 (alleged "gas chamber") of Crematorium II. The arrow points to a sample taking location by Germar Rudolf. (© 1991 Karl Philipp)
Viele der deutschen Wachleute, die das Lager übergaben, war erst in den letzten Kriegstagen in das Lager überstellt worden. Einige waren bloß Teenager aus umliegenden Städten. Ironischerweise sieht dieser junge deutsche Wachmann sogar wie der junge DiCaprio aus. Dieser junge Deutsche war kein vorsätzlicher Holocauster von Juden oder sonst jemandem, sondern ein junger Mann, der tragischerweise in die letzten Tage des brutalsten Krieges der Menschheitsgeschichte gefegt wurde. Die deutschen Soldaten ergaben sich, und mit erhobenen Händen erschossen die Amerikaner Dutzende unbewaffneter deutscher Wächter. Und dies geschah auch nicht in der Hitze des Gefechts, wie es dieser Film suggeriert. Tatsächlich brachten die Amerikaner die Wachen in den Kohlenhof des Lagers, holten ein schweres Maschinengewehr aus ihrem Fahrzeug und brachte es in Stellung, und sie ließen ihre Armeefotografen Bilder von dem Ereignis machen, wie dieses Foto und andere beweisen. Es war ein Kriegsverbrechen. Die Amerikaner spielten Richter, Geschworene und Henker. Sie zerrten sogar deutsche Soldaten aus einem nahe gelegenen Krankenhaus und erschossen sie, obwohl die rein gar nichts mit dem Lager zu tun hatten, geschweige denn mit den Todeszügen. Hier ist das Zeugnis eines der Amerikaner, der an diesem Mord beteiligt war:[48]
As mentioned in the first part of this article (§2.4.7.) no Danish Jews were ever "gassed", and accordingly Rage could not have witnessed the arrival of Jews from that country in Riga, something which diminishes the value of this testimony. It seems possible though that the witness could have mistaken Norwegian Jews for Danish Jews. 346 Jews from Norway were allegedly "gassed" in Auschwitz in October 1942.
The prosecution also attempted to show that certain I.G. Farben employees were involved in illegal typhus experiments on inmates at Auschwitz. Some inmates were alleged to have died from these unsuccessful experiments.[28] DuBois failed to mention that the Allies had also been engaged in illegal medical experimentation, including poison experiments on condemned prisoners in other countries, and cholera and plague experiments on children.[29]
Significant numbers of the Jews in the DP camps had never been deported by the Germans nor, in fact, ever been in any place occupied by the Wehrmacht, at least during the time of said occupation. So, what exactly were they refugees from, and how did they come to be displaced? They were “successful” refugees from German conquest in that they had evacuated their homes in Eastern Europe before the arrival of German forces. But they had moved east, into Soviet or Soviet-controlled territory. The treatment meted out to its own citizens in peacetime by the Soviet Union has gained a very poor reputation, and this was wartime, and these refugees were mostly of Polish, Baltic, and Hungarian nationality, aside from being Jews. Most of these unfortunates were rounded up and deported to labor camps deep inside Russia or its more-easterly satellites, and even the infamous GULAG of slave-labor camps. It is not evident to Gay that most of those suffering this fate might have fared better if they had given themselves over to the tender mercies of the Germans, even if they were deported to the concentration camps operated by those invaders. At the very least, had they done so, they would have been released sooner upon the cessation of hostilities. The USSR did not even begin releasing its Jewish refugees from Poland until over a year after the end of the War, as Gay carefully details in her account.
”During his interrogation, the former commandant of the Mauthausen concentration camp, Standartenfüher Ziereis, made the following statement:
Some revisionists also have criticized the use of pseudonyms and pen names. Despite the long tradition of their use, various revisionists who are open about their work and viewpoints have sometimes expressed distaste at those who prefer pseudonyms. To the open revisionist, the use of a pseudonym can diminish the trust and confidence they are willing to place in the "underground" revisionist." Mark Weber, while editor of the Journal of Historical Review, was often reluctant to publish works submitted under pen names. David Irving also has made various comments through the years targeted at those who prefer to remain in the shadows. This position is certainly more understandable from those who like Irving have lost everything and even suffered imprisonment for their battle for revisionism than from the anti-revisionists who hypocritically denounce the use of pseudonyms and applaud the repression of those who express doubt about the Holocaust.
Jews played a crucial role in organizing the IMT at Nuremberg. Nahum Goldmann, a former president of the World Jewish Congress (WJC), stated in his memoir that the Nuremberg Tribunal was the brain-child of WJC officials. Goldmann said that only after persistent efforts by WJC officials were Allied leaders persuaded to accept the idea of the Nuremberg Tribunal.[29] The WJC also played an important but less-obvious role in the day-to-day proceedings of the trial.[30]
"during the fall of 1942, 40,000 Jews, mostly from Germany and France, were sent to the woods around Riga. Among them was the '22nd Osttransport,' with 791 Jews from Berlin. They had been packed into regular passenger trains—not into cattle cars as was usual for Jewish transports. It must have given the prisoners a false sense of security and hidden from them that the Nazi authorities intended an especially gruesome end for them: mass execution. Before arriving in the Riga ghetto, the train was diverted to a village named Salaspils. There, at the ramp, the transport was divided: fifty young men were sent to work in a sugar factory in Mitau, and a few more were detailed to help build the concentration camp Kaiserwald. (One, at most two, members of the work details survived.) All the others—more than 700 people—were taken into the woods to the killing grounds, where mass graves had been dug by Russian POWs."[131]
“Weder in Dachau noch in Bergen-Belsen noch in Buchenwald sind Juden oder andere Häftlinge vergast worden. Die Gaskammer in Dachau wurde nie ganz fertiggestellt und ‘in Betrieb’ genommen.”
In the so-called Krakow Notes, the “autobiography”/jailhouse confession attributed to Rudolf Höss, the first commandant of Auschwitz, appears the passage:
A movie (Denial) came out September 30 that represents a 2000 trial in London in which not-Holocaust-revisionist David Irving sued author and subsidized “professor” Deborah Lipstadt for writing in her 1993 book Denying History that David Irving was a “Holocaust denier.” The book, having been published in the United Kingdom, became subject to British libel law, which imposes upon the author and publisher of the book the duty of proving the truth of their statements as regards any person suing them for libel—that is, the promulgation of false information concerning the libeled party.
I am thankful to Ted O'Keefe for contributing his memories of our old friend and colleague, “A Revisionist Swashbuckler: My Memories of Bradley R. Smith” to this issue of Inconvenient History. Jett Rucker provides our feature article this quarter with a consideration of the impact of the Casablanca Conference of 1943 on the Holocaust. I am also very pleased to present Professor Faurisson's New Year's Eve thoughts on the state of revisionism, “The Revisionists' Total Victory on the Historical and Scientific Level.” This issue also includes a Ralph Raico classic, “Arthur Ekrirch on American Militarism,” in which he casts a revisionist eye on American militarism from our country's foundation down to the present day. K.R. Bolton returns this issue with an interesting look at World War II as a conflict largely fought between two systems of economy: globalization and autarchy in his “Origins of the Japanese-American War: A Conflict of Free Trade vs. Autarchy.” Our prolific reviewer of books and film Ezra MacVie provides an unusual look at the Oscar-winning film, Spotlight. I conclude this issue fittingly with a new installment in our “Profiles in History” series, outlining the career of Bradley Smith. This autobiographical sketch was written and revised and edited through the years — some of the edits provided by Bradley himself. While he was never directly involved with Inconvenient History, it is certain that without his guidance and friendship through the years, our journal would never have been. And that dear reader, is why this issue of Inconvenient History is dedicated to him. While it is not quite the Festshrift that he deserves, I suspect Bradley would be embarrassed by all the praise. He would likely suggest that we just get on with the work. And so we shall.
A prime example of this would be Carlo Mattogno’s magisterial chapter titled “The Crematoria Ovens of Auschwitz and Birkenau.” In this forty-page chapter, Mattogno presents a from-the-ground-up account of the development of cremation technology followed by a detailed description of every and all of the cremation facilities installed at both Auschwitz and Birkenau, followed in turn by a detailed history of the usage of all these facilities. Mattogno does not undertake to report the actual numbers of bodies cremated; German records suffice entirely for this purpose, and those very records are dismissed by exterminationists as variously incomplete and actually fraudulent in any case. Instead, Mattogno focuses on other indications of usage and capacities including repair records, delivery and consumption of fuels (primarily coke), and even experiments conducted there and elsewhere upon the cremation of more than one corpse at a time, a favorite chestnut of exterminationists intent on “proving” the insufficiency of German records for reflecting the actual numbers of cremations.
Tooze conforms very particularly with the regnant diktat bearing on historians to support the notion that the German state enacted a policy to exterminate the Jews of Europe. Such recitation, which the author undertakes largely without benefit of citation, may be a sine qua non of eminence in his chosen field. Regardless, he neither unduly belabors his occasional explicit references to gas-chamber-extermination programs, nor does he waste words or readers’ attentions upon the enormity of such allegations. He recites them, at a number of points quite sufficient to support the notion that he believes them sincerely, and otherwise seems to consign them to the irrelevance that they deserve with reference to his declared subject—the efforts the Third Reich undertook, first to launch, then to defend against defeat in, what may be viewed in retrospect as its war of survival.
“America’s first and foremost supplier of execution hardware. His products include electric chairs, gas chambers, gallows, and lethal injection machines. He offers design, construction, installation, staff training and maintenance.”[4 ]
Q. No, the entire Auschwitz camp.[100]
The two longitudinal brickwork ducts are positioned at two edges on top of the room. In Document 2, the vertical section, they are indicated with the letter A. Document 3 represents a horizontal section of the two ducts (A1) which run into a crosswise duct (A2) above the door; it presents the opening (A3) of a short horizontal duct which becomes vertical in A4; A4 is indeed the visible horizontal section of this vertical duct. The crosswise duct A2 and the opening A3 are drawn in Document 4 (vertical section). The position of section A4 of the vertical duct is indicated in Document 5: it rises from the basement up to the attic of the crematorium, running through the A-Raum (Aufbahrungs-Raum, laying-out room for the corpses).
[19] Poliakov, Leon, Harvest of Hate, New York: Holocaust Library, 1979, p. 108.
Dr. Sigmund Rascher was a 30-year-old assistant physician at Munich’s famous Schwabinger Krankenhaus hospital when he first met Heinrich Himmler in April 1939. Himmler took an interest in Rascher’s cancer research, and allowed Rascher to use Dachau concentration camp facilities in an effort to switch from animal to human experiments. Rascher’s oncological work was intermittently hampered by his conscription to the Luftwaffe just before the war. However, Rascher soon obtained authorization to perform deadly human medical experiments at Dachau.[8] At the time, Rascher was a captain in the Medical Service of the Luftwaffe, and also held officer rank in the SS.[9]
"the transport of November 29, 1942, with 1,001 Jews, is listed as destined either for Auschwitz or Riga, and the transport of December 14, 1942, with 811 deportees is allocated to Riga. The prosecutor could not find survivors of either transport, and proof of their arrival in Riga is lacking. It is likely that both were directed to Auschwitz (...)"[134]
1. Alexander Ratcliffe: British Holocaust denial in embryo
When Dr Faurisson published his first major article on the ‘Holocaust’ in Le Monde in 1978 he was teaching at the University of Lyon. As a result he was subjected to many demonstrations and ‘punched many times’. He had ‘many, many lawsuits’ against him, and ‘many trials’.[16]  His teaching career was ‘permanently ended’ in 1979.[17] It would be superfluous to further relate Dr Faurisson’s predicament since applying his expertise to the subject of the Holocaust. The record is easy enough to find.
Denazification and the 'war crimes' trials are covered in some depth. He points out that the denazification process was uneven, impractical, and often pursued without much enthusiasm, the process itself eventually being quietly abandoned. The trials he correctly sees as without much legal basis and being little more than 'show trials' in pursuit of vengeance. He cites Paget's work on the von Manstein experience; interesting from a revisionist perspective, he discusses Paget's conclusions about the exaggerations and falsehoods re 'war crimes' in wartime Russia – which is itself of supreme importance given the strange new pseudo-reality of the huge majority of the alleged six million said to have perished in those vast domains at the hands of the Einsatzgruppen and others, instead of via the once ubiquitous gas chambers. This is a little understood and rarely mentioned part of the Holocaust story, but one of supreme importance given the numbers-juggling that has occurred after revisionist researchers have torn so many giant holes in the Auschwitz and 'gas chamber' legends.
Einstein believed in the official Holocaust story[21], and his hatred of Germans continued after the war. Jamie Sayen writes:
On every campus where Hillel and other Jewish organizations have a presence, they lead the attack against free inquiry and open debate on the gas-chamber controversy. I am astounded that Jewish intellectuals and scholars stand idly by while the reputation of Jews as free thinkers is diminished and burlesqued by a handful of mainline Jewish extremists and censors.
Actual dimensions of Morgue #1 said to have been that “chamber”: 30 x 7 x 2.4 m.
Kounio’s memoir was first published in 1996. As she states, she decided to write 50 years after the events because more and more people were disputing the Holocaust, and there had to be a way to refute them. But if someone actually reads her book, the conclusion he will draw is that perhaps it would have been better if she had kept silent. Her own experiences do not confirm the orthodox storyline. It should be added that both she and her mother got seriously sick at the camp (her mother contracted typhus), and yet they were sent to the hospital, not the gas chamber, and they were given all the care needed to recover. Regarding her extermination claims, she does not offer any reliable information. Hence, we have yet another credible witness whose fear prevailed over reason.
It is against the law to advocate the innocence, or even to qualify the guilt, of those accused of the ex post facto crimes that made up the Holocaust. If you do so in Germany, France, Switzerland, Austria, or any of a dozen other countries, you will go to jail, where you may or may not have the good fortune to meet some of the others already there for the same “crimes.” No one ever got in trouble with the law for expressing the belief that any of the West Memphis 3 might not be guilty, or that some other might substantially share their guilt, or even displace them as defendants.
Pressac’s claims, which have reinforced the belief of millions in the myth, will be one of the main focuses of the upcoming documentary Questioning the Holocaust: Why We Believed, Part 2, to which we referred.
”An analysis of the statistical data, only a part of which was at the disposal of the fact-finding commission, shows that in the period from 1940 to 1945 19,900 persons perished at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp.“
Another book on Bletchley Park and the Holocaust was published in 2004. Historian Nicholas Terry, in Yad Vashem Studies, published an article entitled “Conflicting Signals,”[21] defended the British Intelligence Service against Richard Breitman's accusations: the British Intelligence Service had, in fact, according to him, discovered no clear evidence of extermination of Jews based on radio messages deciphered at Bletchley Park.
Note: For sources or references especially regarding certain points of this text one may consult the indices of the seven volumes of my Ecrits révisionnistes thus far published. On the Internet, for “The Victories of Revisionism” (11 December 2006), see http://inconvenienthistory.com/archive/2015/volume_7/number_4/victories_of_revisionism.php and for “The Victories of Revisionism (continued)” (September 11, 2011), see http://inconvenienthistory.com/archive/2016/volume_8/number_1/victories_of_revisionism_cont.php Fans of court rulings by imbeciles are invited to refer to pages 152-155 of the first volume, where there are some tidbits from a decision handed down in 1979 by Her Honor Baluze-Frachet, judge of a Lyon police court. The good lady decreed back then that simply asking the question of the existence of the gas chambers was an affront not only to “good morals” but also to “the moral order.” The amusing bit of it is that by invoking “the moral order” she was advocating – although probably unawares – a value dear to Count MacMahon, Marshal of France, President of the French Republic and perennial model of reactionary conservatism. “The moral order” was to return seventy years later on with... Marshal Pétain. As for the fans of behavioral curiosities, there is fare for them in the following two videos featuring the current head of the French government: “The left hand of Manuel Valls” and “Rally of March 19, 2014 – speech by Manuel Valls, Minister of the Interior” [Both videos are in French; the second with English subtitles —Ed.].
Viktor Frankl’s book Man’s Search for Meaning has been ranked by the Library of Congress as one of the 20th century’s 10 most influential books in the United States. Frankl described his experiences at Auschwitz in this book as if he had spent many months there. In reality, Frankl was in Auschwitz only for a few days in October 1944 while in transit from Theresienstadt to a sub-camp of Dachau.
The “Report on Concentration Camp Sachsenhausen at Oranienburg” (HB-2) additionally contains four lists compiled by former Communist prisoners in May 1945. These documents (with Dutch language headings) list the names of SS men and prisoners accused of having committed crimes in the camp:
In 1947, the freshly established Polish Auschwitz-Museum authorities restructured the building, among other things by removing some of the former air-raid shelter’s internal walls. By so doing they tried to recreate the state as it was before the conversion of this facility to an air-raid shelter. During that process, a number of mistakes were made, among them the removal of a wall which did exist in the pre-shelter era, separating the alleged gas chamber from the adjacent washroom. Only one internal wall was left, which used to separate the washroom from the laying-out/dissecting room. To this very day, this wall has a “simple interior wall” as installed during the conversion to an air-raid shelter.
This time we will take on the latest comprehensive elaboration on the Holocaust written by a mainstream historian: The Extermination of the European Jews (Cambridge University Press, 2016) by German historian Christian Gerlach, professor of modern history at the University of Bern and associate editor of the Journal of Genocide Research. The book’s content is organized as follows:
According to our opponents, the fact that a certain number of transports reached the Reinhardt camps (as well as Auschwitz) from the east contradicts the thesis that they functioned as transit camps:
This is a review of Weinberg's opera, not the specific performance I saw in March 2015, so names of the performing artists are irrelevant. My final verdict on the opera's artistic merits: not bad for a modern opera, but it isn't about the "Holocaust."
Such reactions to The Leuchter Report underscore the irrational nature of the attack upon its author. Instead of focusing attention upon the technological and scientific evidence contained in the report, hostile critics pressed for their pound of flesh; as if it were better that no Jews at all had survived the Holocaust, - evincing an incomprehensible desire to seek or perpetuate a belief that millions perished even if they didn’t.
Beaty described “the Holocaust” as a “fantastic hoax” and United States support for Israel as a policy fiasco. The Iron Curtain over America received strong support from many in the military intelligence community. U.S. Gen. George E. Stratemeyer, for example, said he owed Beaty a great debt, since from Beaty’s book he finally learned what really occurred back home while he was fighting overseas. Stratemeyer said that every loyal American should read The Iron Curtain over America.[27]
German guilt for the so-called Holocaust has resulted in massive reparations being paid to Holocaust survivors and the State of Israel. German reparations to Jews were discussed from the beginning of World War II. Tom Segev writes:[25]
2) “630,000[25] inmates was the combined state of all camps in January 1945. According to my knowledge 3000000 people lost their lives in the concentration camp AUSCHWITZ. I estimate that of these 2500,000 [sic] have been gassed” (p. 7/19).
It seemed to revisionists at the time that any attempt on the part of the defense to prove a systematic extermination of Europe's Jews would be irrelevant. Should the court happen to accept the orthodox Holocaust story, this would not in and of itself support the contention that Irving (or for that matter any other Holocaust revisionist) had disingenuous motives.  It would be up to the defense to prove that that Irving had knowingly misrepresented facts or lied about matters related to the Holocaust in order to spread anti-Semitism or to otherwise bolster fascism. Without proving that Irving's motives were disingenuous, the defense would lose their case. Or so it seemed.
This story is not about the "Holocaust" which, in the common understanding, is about the alleged mass physical extermination of the Jews, usually in gas chambers. I believe the failure to represent it dramatically, over many years, inheres in the nature of the allegation.
“Jews or other inmates were gassed neither in Dachau nor in Bergen-Belsen nor in Buchenwald. The gas chamber at Dachau was never fully completed and taken into ‘operation.’”
The alleged gas chamber, a room (Leichenkeller 1) 30 metres long, becomes, for Nyiszli, 200 metres long [but no width given]; Nyiszli also describes an “adjacent room” which never existed.
“An important addition to studies of the Shoah, agonizing to read and utterly necessary.” — Kirkus Reviews
If we follow the Technical Report, 60 persons could be simultaneously killed in the gas chamber[52]. Sharitch´s final report[53] was finished on 29 June 1945 and Shn-1 (undated) presumably at the beginning of July. Both documents mention the alleged killing capacity of this chamber during the whole time of its existence in the same words:
Regarding the building remains, one large structure (“Object E”) was hinted at by Kola to be the gas chamber; unfortunately, he says, “it is impossible to give a simple answer [to this question].” Graf et al (pp. 159-160) explain why: (a) witnesses said the gas chamber building was brick, and yet Kola’s structure was all wood; (b) at the presumed location of the diesel gassing engine, Kola found only spent ammunition; and (c) the huge size of the object—some 80-100 meters in length—was never mentioned by any witnesses. Notably, Kola’s report has never been translated into English or any western language.
Nick Eberstadt, an expert on Soviet demography, concludes that "the Soviet Union is not only the original killer state, but the model one."11 As for the tendency among European rightists after 1917 to identify the Bolshevik regime with the Jews, there is no end of evidence.12 Indeed, it was an immensely tragic error to which even many outside of right-wing circles were liable. In 1920, after a visit to Russia, Bertrand Russell wrote to Lady Ottoline Morell:
In August 1946 the British finally handed over the SS staff of Sachsenhausen to the Soviets. At that time, the Nuremberg Tribunal was approaching its end, and there was no more need for a report about Sachsenhausen. The SS men formerly stationed at the camp were now handled by NKVD experts. The confessions they made during the preliminary investigation were based on the existing Soviet reports, but in order to avoid possible contradictions between their own ”findings“ and the testimony of the defendants, the Soviets evidently decided not to publish the reports at all. So the various drafts of the ESC disappeared in Russian archives, unknown even to the historians.
Q. Do you know how many you supplied to this concentration camp.
According to the report, the 2,000 POWs who had arrived with the first transport were all shot within 4-5 days (which means that the number of daily executions must have amounted to 400-500). The end of the respective passage reads as follows: ”Every day 1,500 to 2,000 persons were killed.“[51] These figures are utterly ludicrous because the two, three or four existing field crematoria and the aproximately eight crematorium workers could not even remotely have coped with such a number of corpses.
[21] Weber, Mark, “Pages from the Auschwitz Death Registry Volumes,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 12, No. 3, Fall 1992, pp. 265-267.
Shimon’s approbation, however, hardly addresses the issue of how the prosecution of “deniers” offers effective atonement for what did or did not occur during the Holocaust. Shimon stressed the point of view that “Unlike in America, there is not much difference in Europe between hate speech and hate crime. And there seems to be a new willingness to use those laws when it comes to Holocaust denial.”[9]
In 1994 two German judges faced the possibility of being arraigned on a charge of “inciting racial hatred” in Frankfurt after giving Guenther Deckert a suspended sentence on charges of “denying that the Holocaust happened.”[40]
One of the persons whose political background, motives and methods Lipstadt briefly mentions in the book is the British historian David Irving. Lipstadt depicts him in her book as a racist, anti-Semitic Holocaust denier. Irving didn’t like his reputation smeared, so he decided to sue her and her publisher for defamation:[3]
The report ended: “The incident was shocking. There is considerable dissatisfaction on the part of the American officers and men that they are being required by the American Government to repatriate these Russians…”[22] Thus, for most Soviet POWs, being shot in a German concentration camp was preferable to being tortured and executed on their return to the Soviet Union.
Norman Finkelstein, author of The Holocaust Industry, would probably burst out with neurotic laughter upon reading this. An industry by definition involves products, lots of advertising and publicity from the media and, of course, tons of money. A few journals, some conferences and a website are absolutely not up to par. And let us not forget that we read this in a book costing $123, when revisionists give most of their books away for free. So it is already clear that this book is not aimed at anyone familiar with revisionism. Now let’s have a closer look.
As already mentioned, Auschwitz Concentration Camp reported a total of 52,996 Abgänge for the year 1942 as a whole. According to the "Death Books," there are supposed to have been a total of 36,958 deaths at Auschwitz in 1942. The fact that the numbers of Abgänge is greater than the number of deaths, is easily explained, since the term Abgänge includes, as mentioned above, not only natural deaths and victims of execution, but also inmates who had been released or transferred elsewhere. It is therefore entirely conceivable that the number of 36,958 deaths given in the "Death Books" for the year 1942 is quite correct. The existing discrepancy of 16,038 could reflect the number of inmates transferred to other camps or released. Pending the discovery of a document unambiguously proving the gassing of thousands of human beings at Auschwitz by Zyklon B, we are perfectly justified in casting doubt upon the official version of the "Holocaust."
Chief among the report’s inaccuracies pertains to the location of the gas chamber, which was said to have been located in the crematorium. The apparatus the Soviets describe, however, was not found at that location. According to Morsch, it was found in the battery building of the Industriehof, apparently in a disassembled state,[19] whereas according to the 25th June 1945 report of the Soviet Forensic-Medical Commission under the leadership of Lt. Colonel F. I. Schkarawski, the apparatus was found in an "artesian well."[20] While the Soviets claimed that they could recognize that the gassing hardware matched the alleged gas chamber room in the crematorium, we have only their unsupported word on this, the relevant physical evidence having been destroyed by the East German authorities in the 1950s. The association of crematoria with homicidal gas chambers had been a common feature of Soviet propaganda for quite some time when the Sachsenhausen report was written, so it is no surprise that the report repeated this narrative element. The authors could also draw support for this story from camp rumor, which had picked up the idea of a gas chamber associated with the crematorium.[21] (On the other hand, the idea of a gas chamber in the crematorium was a relatively late addition to the Sachsenhausen “Prisoners’ report,”[22] indicating that this rumor was not particularly strong.) Given this context, it is no surprise that the Soviet investigators couched their report in the framework of the crematorium / gas chamber connection, but there is nothing to show that they found anything to support that narrative. On the contrary, the Areginal-adapted Kreislauf chambers which they described came from the delousing chambers, not from the crematorium. Clearly the Soviet investigators felt free to embellish their report for political purposes; after all, the authors of Soviet technical reports were not scrupulous about distorting the truth in order to tell a desired story.[23]
The Reichsfuehrer communicated this to him in the course of a personal interview. During this time in Amtsgruppe D as the head of the Politische Abteilung, he can be held partially responsible for what happened in all other Concentration Camps – eg: – as recently as April 1945, he was advising KRAMER of BELSEN on how to cope with the situation.”
Furthermore, The Eichmann Trial never informs its readers that Professor Browning virtually discredited Eichmann as a reliable “eyewitness” of the “Nazi gas chambers.” Rather than repeat this subject matter here, I refer the reader to my essay.[29]
This trial is about my reputation as a human being, as an historian of integrity, and … as a father. […] A judgment in my favor does not mean that the Holocaust never happened; it means only that in England today discussion is still permitted.14
2. There were in no concentration or internment camps inside or outside Germany any gas chambers, gaswagen, or incinerators for the extermination of human beings. All publications on these are fakes. Pictures and films showed gas vans used by the Wehrmacht to delouse clothes, crematoria, as are common in any big city with a normal capacity, heating systems, specially prepared for filming after the war, concrete gallows platforms erected after the war, piles of corpses cut out from German newsreels of the victims of the bombings of Dresden, Hamburg, Kassel, and skeletal remains that were 300 years old. The gold and jewelry troves found in the Reichsbank branch in Frankfurt do not come from murdered people, but from people who died in internment.
“Three days later, on 15 March 1946, Hanns delivered Rudolf to Camp Tomato, a British-run prison near the town of Minden. There, Colonel Gerald Draper – the War Crimes Group’s lawyer – began a further round of intensive questioning. A few hours afterwards, Rudolf’s statement was typed into an eight-page confession and a one-paragraph summary. It was the first time that a concentration camp Kommandant had provided details of the Final Solution. Rudolf had confessed to coordinating the killing of two million people.”
In viewing the distress and despair of these wretches, in smelling the odor of their filthy condition, the mind reverts instantly to Dachau and Buchenwald. Here is retribution on a large scale, but practiced not on the Parteibonzen [Party leaders], but on women and children, the poor, the infirm. The vast majority are women and children….
On March 21, 1939, while hosting French Prime Minister Édouard Daladier, British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain discussed a joint front with France, Russia and Poland to act together against German aggression. France agreed at once, and the Russians agreed on the condition that both France and Poland sign first. However, Polish Foreign Minister Józef Beck vetoed the agreement on March 24, 1939.[1] Polish statesmen feared Russia more than they did Germany. Polish Marshal Edward Śmigły-Rydz told the French ambassador, “With the Germans we risk losing our liberty; with the Russians we lose our soul.”[2]
While penal codes may vary from nation to nation, most are based upon commonly accepted legal norms which have been universally applied from generation to generation. Holocaust denial laws, by way of contrast, are designed to punish unpopular thoughts and ideas deemed pernicious by self-appointed watchdogs for special interest groups who evidently feel that any criticism of the Holocaust by individuals whose motives are politically suspect demeans people through insensitivity.
"As confusing as the overall picture may seem at first…" (p. 428). Confusing indeed. More like an ad hoc construction, using selective pieces of evidence with a predetermined conclusion in mind. And a failure to examine contrary evidence in a critical manner, and to examine alternative accounts that better explain the evidence. In other words—an entirely unscientific account.
The pattern of the “Holocaust” that ended in 1945 was set as early as 1919, complete with intervention at the highest levels of America’s government to punish persons whose objective inquiry yielded information that disserved Zionist aims. Fortunately for Gibson, it was not at that early juncture illegal to do as he so admirably did, as it is today in nineteen countries. None of his extensive works since that time made any mention of Jews, neither as a group nor as to any individual member of that group.
Barnes properly identified the Holocaust story as the true barrier to the acceptance of revisionist arguments and thereby the true barrier to peace, security and prosperity among nations. The specter of the Holocaust is marched out to justify every modern military intervention. The media and the government depict our ‘enemies’ as modern day Hitlers intent on committing genocide and planning to use their secretive arsenals of weapons of mass destruction.
But even if such an approach had been possible, I still would have rejected it, because I am firmly convinced that no court has the right to pass binding judgment on matters of scientific controversy. It is therefore an impermissible concession to allow a court of law to pass judgment on the correctness of scientific theses – here about history – in the first place. Every such motion to introduce evidence is already a crime against science, because it undermines its independence from the judiciary.
Curtis relies on the London Charter or Agreement of 8th August 1945, which provided the “legal” basis for the Nuremberg Trials. A powerful exposure of the injustice involved in both the Agreement and the Trials was published by British jurist (and former member of the British Union of Fascists) F. J. P. Veale in his 1948 book Advance to Barbarism.[6] Curtis also relies on the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court of 17th July 1998, which may also well be able to be shown to be unjust or, at least, poorly drafted, and which may also have been effectively brought into existence by the promoters of the present official version of “the Holocaust.” Curtis quotes the statute as pronouncing that the “crimes against humanity” it has established “are particularly odious offenses in that they constitute a serious attack on human dignity or grave humiliation, or a degradation of human beings,” but he does not provide any evidence or argument to support this claim. “Antisemitism”, he writes, “is incompatible with democracy and human rights,” a statement in which all three terms cry out for exact definition. (One recalls Shakespeare’s words given to Macbeth: “full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.”)
Holocaust revisionism has had a long and distinguished history of the use of pseudonyms or noms des plumes by its authors. Three early titles were written by Josef Ginsburg using the pseudonym J.G. Burg. These included Schuld und Schicksal (Guilt and Destiny), 1962, Suendenboecke (Scapegoats), 1967, and NS-Verbrechen (National Socialist Crimes), 1968. Ginsburg, a Jewish author, had been deported during the war by the Nazis. Presumably Ginsburg used this pseudonym to protect both himself and his family.[5]
In another study, I demonstrated that the Zyklon-B disinfestation chambers in existence at Auschwitz on 9 January 1943 would have required more than 11 metric tons of Zyklon B per year when used once a day. The known deliveries of Zyklon B are thus not at all out of proportion to the camp’s innocuous disinfestation needs, quite to the contrary. This story was put into circulation already in the second half of 1945 by the Americans during their investigations in preparation of the trial against Bruno Tesch et al. The interrogations of Joachim Drosihn, chief chemist of the Tesch company, and of Bruno Tesch by U.S. investigators clearly show the nature of the Holocaust myth of that era, for we find there the claims that
This confirms an attempted mass escape. The usual narrative about this event, however, has it that the prisoners blew up Crematorium IV themselves and set it on fire, and that most participants of this attempted escape were shot while trying to flee, or during subsequent reprisals.[4]
Joseph G. Burg, a Jewish author who wrote several books on the Holocaust story, testified at the 1988 Zündel trial that he had spoken to hundreds of people who had been at Auschwitz-Birkenau when he visited the camp in the fall of 1945. Burg formed the opinion that there were no German extermination camps, the gas chambers had never existed, and there was no plan to exterminate the Jews of Europe.
It would seem that Irving’s clever analogy had grounds. During the course of an interview granted to a journalist working for the prestigious French newsmagazine L’Express, Museum official Krystyna Oleksy candidly conceded “the room shown to tourists as a supposed execution ‘gas chamber’ in its ‘original state’ is a fraud actually built after the war under Polish Communist supervision.”[39]
The Higher SS and Police Leader (Höhere SS- und Polizeiführer, HSSPF) of Breslau and the division command “SS Main Section South-East” at this time was SS-Obergruppenführer Ernst-Heinrich Schmauser, who had Upper Silesia under his jurisdiction,[12] including Auschwitz. “Higher SS and Police Leader North” undoubtedly refers to Friedrich Jeckeln, who had the region “Russland-Nord” (Russia North) under his jurisdiction. This included the German-occupied Russian territory east of the Baltic countries which we are dealing with here. The Reichsautobahn was the administrative framework for the interstate highways in the Reich and the occupied territories.
Housing at both installations was hopelessly inadequate throughout the war. That the Germans may have met the “demand” for housing better than the Americans may be ascribed to the lower standards deemed adequate for slave laborers at Auschwitz vis-à-vis those for “free” Americans. On the other hand, the climate at Oak Ridge is a good deal milder than in Silesia, so any given level of housing would be better in Tennessee than at Auschwitz.
In 1989, Philippe Burrin published a book in which he did not dwell on the question of the gas chambers but where, in a general way, dealing with a policy of physical extermination of the Jews, he bemoaned the absence of clues of the crime, “the stubborn erasure of the trace of anyone’s passing through,” “the large gaps in the documentation” and the fact that such traces as there were “are not only few and far between, but difficult to interpret” (Hitler et les juifs / Génèse d’un génocide, Seuil, 1989, p. 9, 13).
As regards the alleged killing of the Jews of Upper Silesia, it should be noted that, in reality, there is no documentary trace of the 15 transports alleged to have arrived at Auschwitz from this region between 5 May and 18 August 1942, whose passengers are alleged to have been all gassed (35,130 persons),
This was standard procedure; the granules were sent to the manufacturer at Dessau as “spent Zyklon” (“verbrauchtes Zyklon”; see Document 17). This recycling procedure, however, is not mentioned by any of the main witnesses of the so-called Sonderkommando of Auschwitz allegedly involved in the claimed homicidal gassings.
Next in line was Wilhelm Stäglich, who in his 1979 book Der Auschwitz-Mythos wrote:5
This touches on an international issue of the gravest import. It is a commonplace now to note that one can, in Western nations, engage in adverse criticism of Christianity and Islam, Jesus and Mohammed, without fear of incurring legal proceedings and the status of social pariah. It is not so with the Holocaust dogma. This appears to be virtually proof positive that these nations, including Australia, already live under a semi-tyranny imposed by an imperium in imperio. Unfortunately, Zentai’s defense team could not raise matters such as this in their struggle to protect their client, partly because of their irrelevance to legalities about extradition, but also partly because they would not have been responded to fairly and might have excited odium towards Zentai.
Professor Christopher Browning is considered one of the world’s foremost authorities on the WWII concentration camps of Treblinka, Belzec and Sobibor, collectively known as the Operation Reinhardt Camps. In his formal statement for the David Irving vs. Deborah Lipstadt and Penguin Books libel trial in London in 2000, Browning admitted that documents relating to mass gassings at these camps are scant. The same holds true for the material evidence (the mass graves and remains of the camps themselves): it is scarce.[7]
“…details of the Nazis’ grand plans for genocide and brutal domination are absent from the pages.”[4]
One of the reasons for this lack of an open exchange of ideas may be the fact that for nearly fifty years the camps at Auschwitz and Birkenau, were, if not inaccessible, at least not open to independent researchers; moreover, it was not even known to the general public that an enormous amount of documents had survived the end of World War Two, safely tucked away in Soviet and other archives.
Winston Churchill’s 1920 article, in which he highlighted the predominant Jewish role in the world-wide communist movement, is pretty well known. What is not discussed is how he misled his readers in essays and books published many years later. In many contemporary academic environments, it is held that the concept of “International Jewry”—groups of powerful Jews who operate on an international basis and feel that the world-wide Jewish community is united by racial bonds—is a “neo-Nazi” and “radically anti-Semitic” canard that should be immediately dismissed. Sir Winston and the British government showed us otherwise. Finally, it may raise the eyebrows of many when they find out what Churchill told the House of Commons in August 1946 about his knowledge of the Holocaust during the war.
Yet another mass execution by shooting is alleged to have taken place in the night from 1 to 2 February 1945, but no details are known; the number of victims reportedly amounted to between 130 and 189. The only point the witnesses agree on is that the doomed were shot “on the area of the crematorium“, which means that the execution could have taken place either within the crematorium building or in the shooting ditch. The events of that February night are reported in several early testimonies, e.g. in the so-called Häftlingsbericht (Prisoners´ Report)[59]. All these testimonies are contradictory and vague, due to the fact that the inmates could only hear, but not see, what actually happened.
Born on 23 February 1925, interned at Sachsenhausen from 4 May 1940. In HB-7 Misiewicz (whose name is almost illegible) is mentioned as the third from the bottom of the foreign signers. According to the document, he was an electrician by profession. He must have learned his trade in the camp for at the moment of his arrest he was only 15 years old. Misiewicz was probably a Communist sympathizer already while still an inmate in the camp. After the war he joined the Communist Polish Workers’ Party. He is named as a member of the author´s team (Autorenkollektiv) of the Sachsenhausen standard work “Damals in Sachsenhausen.”[28] Being born in the border town of Brest-Litovsk, he apparently knew some Russian so the Soviet Commission used him in 1945 as a witness and helper (Fig 4).
For 66 years, by virtue of the assumption that the unprecedented horror had unquestionably happened, we have been constantly subjected to the same chant: “How could the country of Goethe and Beethoven, land of so many great minds, scholars, benefactors of humanity have committed the crime of crimes?”, or again “How could the world stay silent? How is it that Pope Pius XII, so hostile to Adolf Hitler, never mentioned the gas chambers either during or after the war?”, or “How can it be explained that neither in their statements nor in their respective memoirs Churchill, Eisenhower, de Gaulle, although ruthless in denouncing the crimes of National Socialism, should never have mentioned those gas chambers that were the ultimate weapon of mass destruction of Jews?”, or “How is it that so many Jews – derisively called ‘Brown Jews’ – should have agreed in the countries occupied by the German army, or in ghettos or camps, to cooperate with the Nazis?”, or, finally, “What is behind the overall silence of nations and, in particular, that of Switzerland and the International Committee of the Red Cross, in the face of the Holocaust then underway?” These and other questions of like nature have an answer: the crime of crimes was not committed. The Jews were treated by National Socialist Germany as declared or potential enemies but they were never steered towards physical extermination; during a total war in which millions of civilians perished many Jewish civilians died but many survived. More than sixty-five years after the war we are still awaiting estimates that can be verified.
What Dr. Lipstadt insists on is to turn the hierarchical pyramid on its head, giving “survivor testimony” absolute priority. Nowhere in her books does she define what “the proper use of evidence” is. Hence, she is shifting the goalpost here again to make it fit into her agenda.
For Jews to recognize Deir Yassin and for Palestinians to recognize the victimization of Jews in the Holocaust would be steps toward recognizing the humanity and suffering of both peoples. What better place for such mutual recognition than in Jerusalem and specifically at Yad Vashem and at Deir Yassin? What better place to share each other's pain and victimization? What better place to come ‘out of the ashes’ as Marc Ellis says in his book, Israel and Palestine: Out of the Ashes.
Smithsonian “Smart News” of 11 October 2017 and Deutsche Welle of 9 October reported that a thirteen-page letter from a member of the Sonderkommando at Birkenau, discovered in 1980, has been rendered legible. Deutsche Welle says that the letter was written in late 1944, then “stuck in a thermos, wrapped in a leather pouch and buried in the soil near Crematorium III” before the arrival of the Red Army. Only 10 to 15% of the letter, written by Greek Jew Marcel Nadjari, was legible when it was found in 1980, but with multispectral image analysis in 2013, 85 to 90% of the letter became legible.
Germans have been permitted to dig up mass graves of POWs at former Russian camps, but the German government has prevented the uncovering of evidence from the French and American POW camps. For example, Otto Tullius, a German prisoner who survived Bretzenheim, was a farmer who owned some of the land on which he was imprisoned with thousands of other POWs. After the camp was closed, the land was returned to Tullius, and he began farming there again. As Tullius plowed the land, he kept turning up detritus from the prisoners in the camp such as flasks, belt buckles, and tin dishes. In the 1980s, Otto Schmitt began to excavate on the land beside the Tullius house, searching for more artifacts or even bodies from the camp. Schmitt was forced to stop his excavation work when the police threatened him with a fine of 250,000 DM.[16]
Let’s say, hypothetically speaking, that someone wanted to design and implement a systematic process for mass-murdering hundreds of thousands of people, in a short period of time, using poisonous gas. How might one go about doing this? This is the question that must have been brought to bear on certain high-ranking individuals in the Nazi regime, sometime in late 1941—if we are to believe the conventional Holocaust story.
While mention of the Himmler book may raise excitement in some circles and eyebrows in others, the brief comments reveal little as to what Irving will ultimately write about the Holocaust – a topic that surely cannot be avoided in such a biography. Irving flip-flops even in this slender book leaving the readers little idea what to expect in the forthcoming book. He describes Himmler as a man who “achieved so much that was both grotesque and spectacular.” He also calls him “the evil executor of what is now called the Holocaust.” Such comments, left with no explanation leave the reader expecting that Irving will lay the blame for much of the traditional Holocaust story directly at Himmler’s feet. Irving notes that Himmler’s daughter Gudrun fears that he will “demolish her late father” purely in an attempt to rehabilitate himself. Irving however, asserts that such a prediction is incorrect.
Figure 1: Monthly deaths at Auschwitz.
“Rocks with poison gas pellets named Zyklon B could be inserted from the outside. Since the gas chambers were only built during the camp’s last months, only seven were killed in the gas chambers used as test subjects.”
On May 15, 1944, Convoy 73 departed from Drancy near Paris, carrying 878 male Jews, 38 of them youths between 11 and 18 years of age. The transport arrived in Kaunas on May 21, 1944. Here most of the deportees disembarked, while some 300 continued on to the Estonian capital Reval (Tallinn), which they reportedly reached on May 24. At least 14 deportees are reported to have died en route from thirst and heat. According to Estonian Holocaust historian Meelis Maripuu, of the some 578 Jews who remained behind in Kaunas, “[a]lmost all […] were executed in Kaunas at Fort 9 and [the labor camp] Pravieniškės, only two men escaped.”[152]
[22] Medoff, Rafael, Blowing the Whistle on Genocide: Josiah E. DuBois, Jr., and the Struggle for a U.S. Response to the Holocaust, West Lafayette, Ind., Purdue University Press, 2009, pp. 19, 55. See also https://www.nhd.org/sites/default/files/JosiahDuBoisbibandprocess.pdf.
On May 13th news headlines around the world announced the conviction of John Demjanjuk for having been a guard at the infamous Sobibor concentration camp. Demjanjuk it would seem was found guilty as an accessory to the murder of some 28,060 people. Oddly however if one reads beyond the headlines it is revealed that there was no evidence that Demjanjuk committed any specific crime. The conviction was based on the legally declared “fact” that if he was at the camp, he had to have been a participant in the killing. But if convicting a man without evidence isn’t strange enough, Judge Ralph Alt ordered Demjanjuk sentenced to 5 years in prison but released him from custody, noting that he had already served two years during the trial and had served 8 years in Israel on related charges which were later overturned. Was this verdict truly about carrying out justice for crimes committed 65 years prior or was it simply the wisdom of a judge who could placate all sides by setting a 91-year-old man free but still pronouncing him guilty?
I shall not dwell upon this singular ban, halfway between superstition and ceremonial magic (on the one hand, the rabbi has the power to cause the victims to enjoy "the fullness of God", while on the other hand, moving their bodies "disturbs" this fullness, as if the bones could exert an influence over the soul!); rather, I shall proceed immediately with the motivation for re-opening the graves: "so that it would no longer be possible to doubt [the reality of the Shoah] because of the lack of material confirmation" (p. 224).
The upshot of all these studies is quite simply that there cannot have been any homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz. The forensic and documentary evidence positively refutes even the possibility of their existence.
“As the Holocaust has become many contemporary Jews’ master story, so, too, its perpetual observance has become their paramount Jewish practice, its veneration their religion. And as with any organized church, this Holocaust cult has its own tenets of faith, rites, and shrines."
“The archives of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum contain numerous documents signed by Dr. Mengele, such as requests for analysis by the Institute of Hygiene.”[15]
The tsunami of “eyewitness reports” of this industrialization of murder constitutes a veritable “perfect storm” of evidence to confirm in the minds of all within the reach of Western media and educational systems the unassailable truth of the gas-chamber story. It is, indeed, a storm so very perfect as to require what in evolutionary theory is known as “intelligent design.” This, despite the fact that no gas chamber for killing people with a capacity above two (both victims strapped into their chairs) has ever been suggested, much less known to have existed, before or since.
In a long 1998 article, German architect Willy Wallwey, writing under the pen names of Hans Jürgen Nowak and Werner Rademacher, summarized what the extant documentation accessible in various Moscow archives reveals about gas-tight doors offered to, delivered to and installed in the various buildings at Auschwitz.[21] Wallwey concluded that the Auschwitz camp authorities did indeed request cost estimates for sturdy, gas-tight, and probably also panic-proof steel doors, but they were never delivered. These doors even had so-called wedge locks used to close them in an air-tight fashion, a closing mechanism that could be called “screwing” the doors shut as described by witnesses, see Illustration 3.[22]
Debating the Holocaust: A New Look at Both Sides 2nd Edition by Thomas Dalton
Professor Heschel emphasizes how the Holocaust ideology traumatized her. She says that family members were murdered by the Germans: "Within my family certain horrors stood out. The murder of family members was so terrible that it was discussed only rarely, perhaps once in five years, and then only in whispers. Mentioning even briefly what had happened to my grandmother, for example, caused a depression that hung over our household for days."[14]
But it got worse. One year later, the NYT had precise details. “Victims put at 1,500,000 in huge death factory of gas chambers and crematories,” screamed the headline.[41] The camp had recently been “liberated” by the Russians, and they invited Western reporters in to see the horror firsthand. Reporter Bill Lawrence wrote,
“We did know, because we had worked before in those transport camps. The old people and the war wounded and the Jewish community employees went to Theresienstadt, so you knew that there was a preference, that there must have been something special about it. Auschwitz, I was there, so I knew. I was there as a visitor. I also knew that my father was in Buchenwald and that he died a few days after he was released. We knew that it was no picnic whatever was there. How much the Germans knew, I don’t know. But I can tell you that later on when I was in a work camp that you marched there in the wintertime without hair and without clothes. So they must have known, too. Definitely! If anybody tells me they didn’t, they did.” (p. 131)
In a study on the Swedish response to the ”Holocaust”, American-Jewish historian Steven Koblik has the following to say on the Swedish-Jewish periodical Judisk Krönika (Jewish Chronicle) issued in Stockholm:
The Auschwitz-Birkenau complex is a major tourist site that provides the Polish economy with much needed revenue. In 1989, 700,000 people from eighty-nine countries visited the camp.[76] In 2008, it experienced more than one million visitors, and in 2009 a record number of 1.3 million toured the site.[77]
There are indeed some Jewish historians who maintain or at least accept as possible the notion that Western Jews from countries other than the German Reich and the Protectorate were deported to Latvia. Bernhard Press, who himself grew up as a Jew in Riga during the war, writes in his study on the Holocaust in Latvia:
However, the powerful imagery of these western-liberated, overcrowded, disease-infested camps, devastated due to the Allied bombing campaign in the final months of the worst war in the history of mankind is still used to brainwash the public as proof of an extermination program of gas chambers disguised as shower rooms in camps captured by the Soviet Union.
The Nuremberg Tribunal assigned to the Soviets the task of introducing all the evidence of German atrocities in Eastern Europe. With regard to Katyn the Soviets introduced “testimony” which consisted of "written statements" said to have been signed by "eyewitnesses.” These testimonies were in fact only "quoted" in a "report" and read aloud by the Soviet prosecutor. The original documents were never attached to the report. A so-called "forensic report" was also introduced into evidence. It was the only forensic report introduced into evidence at Nuremberg.
In 2010 David Weber pointed to further apparent failure of the Australian Government to protect its own: ‘Zentai has said he’s quite willing to answer questions in Australia if Hungary were to send people to speak to him. There’s no evidence that any Australian minister has attempted to facilitate this, preferring to let the extradition process “run its course”….. It seems the Federal Government has been quite willing to allow an Australian citizen to spend his life savings battling a case that could have, at any time, been halted by the minister responsible.’[113] And McCusker had this to say: ‘You look at all that [the finding by the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions that Zentai had no case to answer] and say what are you doing extraditing to a Hungarian prison for purposes of interrogation an Australian citizen who’s been such for half a century….. You have to question, as an Australian citizen and taxpayer, what’s motivating the Government to do this?’[114] As long ago as 1988 the distinguished Catholic political commentator B. A. Santamaria noted that the Australian Government of the day, the Hawke government, had ‘accepted the view that all evidence, including Soviet evidence, should be equally admissible’ and pointed out how the record of NKVD and KGB behaviour made such a position morally and practically unacceptable.[115]
“Did you know before the end of the war about the concentration camps?
Even in the early 1980s I had only a casual interest in the historical record. What held my attention was what I perceived to be the challenge of finding a way to convince the intellectuals, and the media intellectuals, that revisionist research should be judged on its merits, as I presumed they judged all other historical research. I see now I presumed much too much. These days, as students display a growing interest in an open debate about the Holocaust controversy, the intellectuals increasingly display signs of bad temper and even hysteria.
Enter yet another book, but this one very different: In Beyond Chutzpah: On the Misuse of Anti-Semitism and the Abuse of History, published in 2005, Norman G. Finkelstein exposed Peters's statistics as fraudulent, and with that revelation both her argument and that of Dershowitz, collapsed. However, the damage is done among those who wish to ignore Finkelstein, and there are many! “Isn’t he a holocaust denier?”, I’ve been asked. I respond: “No. His parents were holocaust survivors.” Zionists have long used a familiar tactic against those who challenge their propaganda: Defamation. And so the lies persist. This writer still has people putting From Time Immemorial in his face to prove their argument. They refuse to be embarrassed.
No wonder then that it took “considerable time” also for Sulkowski to figure out that he was constructing gas chambers…
Since the “gas chambers” of Crematoria IV and V allegedly were activated without ventilation systems, one could ask how, according to van Pelt, the ventilation of the rooms was achieved, and especially how long it took. His embarrassment about such a simple question is shown by his silence, and it results even more from his pretense that Crematoria IV and V were “efficient and economical killing machines”.[87] Efficient? How could three “gas chambers” with a volume of approximately 521 m3, with 2 doors of 100 x 200 cm, and 7 small windows of 30 x 40 cm have an efficient ventilation?
Jardim writes concerning these verdicts: “Given the brevity of deliberations, it is clear that the judges spent no significant amount of time reviewing the evidence, examining legal precedent, or evaluating the issues surrounding the common-design charge that defense counsel had raised. In all likelihood, the judges had begun deliberations with their minds made up.”[27]
This allegation is really not very convincing. Why should the mass gassings at Auschwitz not be reported through Enigma when the mass shootings on the Eastern Front were reported through Enigma, i.e., in precisely the same way? Regardless of whether it was a matter of mass executions in Riga, Minsk or Kiev – oddly, Breitman's book constantly proves its points based on the reports from Bletchley Park, which the author obviously considers reliable.
3)   Dr. Richard Green, who says “I am not embarrassed to call Holocaust denial hate speech,” agrees with Germar Rudolf that the Prussian Blue found in the delousing chambers is the result of gassing with hydrogen cyanide. However, Dr. Green offers a possible alternative explanation for why the outside walls of the delousing chambers have blue staining. Green writes:
Thus, the questions of whether the pellets had to be removed from the chambers or not and whether strong mechanical ventilation was needed or not become crucial: one cannot argue both one way (for Crematoria II and III) and the other (for Crematoria IV and V, and/or the bunkers). It is not at all clear why, if the farmhouse bunkers had functioned satisfactorily, it was necessary to install pellet removal devices in Crematoria II and III in spite of their very efficient ventilation system (van Pelt demonstrates this mathematically) while neither ventilation nor pellet removal was deemed advisable in Crematoria IV and V which were being built at the same time and claimed, by van Pelt and Dwork, to have been undisguised killing stations designed for this particular purpose. If we consider the matter in detail, this latter claim is certainly not convincing, because ventilation was as poor in Crematoria IV and V as in the “bunkers“, if not worse, quite apart from the fact that the floors could not be properly washed and that the ceiling of the death chambers was at a height of 2 meters and consisted of 3-cm Masonite board – porous and easily damaged.
British journalist Gitta Sereny interviewed Franz Stangl, a former commandant of Sobibor, while he was in prison and his sentence was on appeal. Sereny was aware that Stangl would attempt to make his case in way that would be in his best legal interests. It simply was not in Stangl’s interests to contest the Sobibor “gas chamber” claim. Indeed, it was in his best legal interests to simply “go along” with the Sobibor extermination ideology, and then attempt to mitigate his alleged guilt.[113]
Perhaps the most-read critique of revisionist use of pseudonyms is that of Harry Mazal of the Holocaust History Project, an anti-revisionist group that functions primarily on the Internet. Mazal mainly targeted Germar Rudolf, for what Mazal calls his "continuing attempt to obfuscate and confuse." Mazal writes,
In The Eichmann Trial, Lipstadt cited this Browning essay, although she never informed the reader that this “Final Solution” expert exposed the Eichmann testimony as a faulty and unreliable historical source (p. 177, p. 219n47). Nevertheless, she wrote that Eichmann spewed forth a long series of lies (pp. 128). Israeli interrogators insisted Eichmann was a liar (p. 44), and he told “fables” and spewed forth “fantasies”(p. 50).
For Lipstadt, it becomes apparent that "deniers" are not those who express sincere doubts about some element of the Holocaust story but number among those who actually believe the orthodox story in all its gruesome details. The "deniers" purposefully distort materials and even "lie" in order to support their ideology. At various times Lipstadt defines that ideology in varying terms but the net result is always the same, "they are fascists and antisemites [sic] with a specific ideological and political agenda."[4]
[15] Stäglich, Wilhelm, “Der Auschwitz Mythos: A Book and Its Fate in the German Federal Republic,” The Journal of Historical Review, Vol. 5, No. 1, Spring 1984, p. 65. See http://www.ihr.org/jhr/v05/v05p-47_Staglich.html
According to the Sobibor archeologists, the physical evidence is not to be used to test the entire Sobibor extermination story, to see if it is true or false. Rather, the physical evidence is to be used to “corroborate” and “support” the “official truth” about Sobibor. The official extermination story of Sobibor is thus a non-scientific axiom, because it cannot be falsified. It is just assumed to be true—just like a religious dogma. The Sobibor “gas chamber” story has only eyewitness testimony to support it—just like a religious dogma.
Let us move onto the next logical question: how were the dead bodies transferred from the gas chambers to the mass graves, where they were allegedly burned?
In reality, a veritable misrepresentation was actually performed by Green and McCarthy. In the above-mentioned book Auschwitz: The End of a Legend. Critique of Jean-Claude Pressac[53] (the English translation of Auschwitz. Fine di una leggenda[54]) the facsimile copies of the Topf invoices no. 171 of February 22nd, and no. 729 of May 27, 1943 are shown,[55] which both, we repeat, state a capacity of 4,800 m3/h. Now a high degree of brazenness is needed to pretend that invoices, which by definition correspond to items actually delivered, referred instead to a mere design specification!
“If the German took your card with him, tomorrow morning you were going to burn. They were saying that they will send you to a better camp to recover some of your strength. They did this once to fool us. A transport that left for the crematorium, came back after a month.” (p. 329)
Karny, like other mainstream historians, asserts that the Jews on the five transports Bt-Bx departing from Theresienstadt in October 1942 were killed in Treblinka. It is in fact clear that at least one of the five trains—the second transport departing on 8 October (Bu)—reached Treblinka, as one of the Jews on board, Richard Glazar, was picked out to work in the camp and later survived the Treblinka prisoner revolt to became a Holocaust witness.[20] Reportedly only a few dozen of the in total 8,000 Theresienstadt deportees were selected for work in Treblinka as Glazar was, while the rest were "gassed".[21]
What Nyiszli says about the crematory capacity of the cremation furnaces is technically impossible and historically nonsensical. He speaks of the cremation of 3 bodies in 20 minutes in one muffle, in each of the 15 muffles of Crematoria II and III, corresponding to a theoretical capacity of 3,240 bodies in 24 hours, which, for Nyiszli, however, becomes, incomprehensibly, 5,000. Therefore, according to him, the total capacity of the four Birkenau crematoria was 20,000 bodies per day. All this is absurd: in the coke-fired Topf furnaces of Auschwitz-Birkenau, 20 minutes would not even have sufficed to vaporise the water contained in a single body. The real capacity of such installations, as declared by Topf engineer Kurt Prüfer, who designed the furnaces, and Karl Schultze, who designed the blowers, was one single body per muffle per hour, or one ninth as much as asserted by “eyewitness” Nyiszli.
Dr. Rascher was the infamous doctor who conducted medical experiments on inmates at Dachau, which were among the crimes prosecuted by the American occupational powers after the war in the famous “Medical Case” of the Nuremberg Trials of War Criminals. While there was plenty of evidence for a variety of experiments on human guinea pigs such as exposure to low air pressure and extended submersion in cold water, tests of combat gases at Dachau were not among the charges. There was simply too little evidence to make that case.
“Leuchter testified that he was a consultant to the states of South Carolina and Missouri with respect to the operation of gas chambers used for prisoner executions, and was currently under contract with the state of Missouri to completely reconstruct their gas chamber.”
False Jewish-eyewitness testimony has often been used to attempt to convict innocent defendants. For example, John Demjanjuk, a naturalized American citizen, was accused by eyewitnesses of being a murderous guard at Treblinka named Ivan the Terrible. Demjanjuk was deported to Israel, and an Israeli court tried and convicted him primarily based on the eyewitness testimony of five Jewish survivors of Treblinka. Demjanjuk’s defense attorney eventually uncovered new evidence proving that the Soviet KGB had framed Demjanjuk by forging documents supposedly showing him to be a guard at Treblinka. The Israeli Supreme Court ruled that the five Jewish eyewitness accounts were not credible, and that Demjanjuk was innocent.[29]
Further evidence showing that Lipstadt’s traditional view of the Holocaust is indeed a psychological assault upon the entire European world, and not just upon the Germans and those who were allied with them during WWII, was demonstrated by the remarks of Israel’s Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in a special Knesset session marking the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau. According to The International Jerusalem Post, “Sharon blamed the Western allies for knowing about the annihilation of Jews in the Holocaust, but doing nothing to prevent it.” He said the “sad and horrible conclusion is that no one cared that Jews were being murdered.”33
The mainstream media viciously attacked David Irving after his testimony at the 1988 false-news trial of Ernst Zündel in Canada. Irving’s books subsequently disappeared from many bookshops, his sales plummeted, and he was ultimately labeled a “Holocaust denier.”[1]
In Shn-5, the sentence “In a special room …” has been added in tiny handwriting, and – apparently as a confirmation – the meeting of camp commandants in Sachsenhausen is mentioned, according to the so-called “Ziereis confession”. In the final version, Shn-6, the sentence “In a special room …” appears in typewritten form and is followed by quotations from the Ziereis confession:
The historiographical designation of the Maly Trostenets camp requires some elucidation. While many holocaust historians simply call Trostenets an “extermination site” or “execution site”, numerous books also refer to it as an “extermination camp” or “death camp”. This appears to be a growing trend. Already in a newspaper article from July 1944 Trostenets was referred to as “a death camp for Czech, German and Austrian Jews”. In 1999 German holocaust historian Christian Gerlach again labeled it a “death camp”.[3] The only monograph on Trostenets to appear to date in any Western European language, written by the journalist Paul Kohl and published in 2003, bears the title Das Vernichtungslager Trostenez (The Trostenez Extermination Camp). The online encyclopedia Wikipedia speaks of the “Maly Trostenets extermination camp”.[4] The exterminationist website ARC writes that “Insufficient research has been conducted in the West into Maly Trostinec, yet those killed there may have been comparable in number to the victims of Majdanek or Sobibor, and may possibly have been greater.”[5] In 2005 a Russian article appeared bearing the title “Trostenets – The Byelorussian 'Auschwitz'”.[6]
To sum up: Blogger Faggot79's "proof" that “Edith Lang, born in Rome” was “included" has been "successful". “Edith Lang, born in Rome” is a new number, added to the list of "Shoah victims"! One more “proof” of the “millions of victims documented in detail", according to “Faggot79”!
This is the first tactic of the official historians: Suppress the evidence when possible. The other? What else? The “code language”:
In 1983, the anti-National Socialist book Legions of Death by Rupert Butler showed that Jewish Sgt. Bernard Clarke and other British officers tortured Rudolf Höss into making his confession. The torture of Höss was exceptionally brutal. Neither Bernard Clarke nor Rupert Butler finds anything wrong or immoral in the torture of Höss. Neither of them seems to understand the importance of their revelations. Bernard Clarke and Rupert Butler prove that Höss’s testimony at the IMT was obtained by torture, and is therefore not credible evidence in proving a program of German genocide against European Jewry.[14]
The question is, of course: where is the link between these political insinuations and Holocaust revisionism? While it is certainly true that some people holding revisionist views also have certain political views most people detest, it’s not true for all revisionists, simply because revisionism is primarily an attitude toward evidence, not politics. Hence, regarding the Holocaust, revisionism means simply that you think the orthodox narrative needs revision due to new, overlooked, misrepresented or misunderstood evidence.
A fourth piece of evidence comes from Dr Milan Bulajic, a former Yugoslav diplomat who….. has published a book in Yugoslavia claiming that the massacres for which Artukovic was convicted were inventions. Bulajic told a Belgrade newspaper, “There was no legal reason for the extradition. Andrija Artukovic was sentenced for crimes that never took place.”
It appears that Scully had been making a practice of dropping unsolicited political pamphlets and videos in letter-boxes, as well as selling these and various books in a public marketplace. The record of proceedings states that some of these materials claimed that Germany did not engage in organized brutality during World War Two, and that Germans had been wrongly depicted as fiends. It was argued that the bodies of concentration camp victims were not burnt in gas ovens, but had ordinary cremation. The camp at Auschwitz had a swimming pool, school and theatre.[91]
Wie dem auch sei, etwa eine halbe Million Juden (IJA, WRB, HICEM) entkamen durch eine organisierte Flucht aus dem deutschen Einflussbereich; zusammen mit den 600.000 jüdischen "Holocaust-Überlebende" der "grauen Elendslager von Europa“ ergibt das 1 Million vormals vermisste Juden (s. Tabelle 2 unter B.). Neben den hunderttausenden jüdischen Toten dürfte auch die Frage nach den zusätzlichen Überlebenden, insbesondere den polnischen, deutschen und westeuropäischen Juden größtenteils gelöst sein.
All this (and many, many more) are today in the trash can of history. In short, a study of the IMT transcript provides an insuperable mass of reasons discrediting Nuremberg “evidence”.
The presumably innocently misleading title of this work actually provides a fair representation of the sort of “history” embodied in this book. Ruth Gay, an accomplished chronicler of events involving world Jewry in many places and times (she died in 2006), conveys impressions of such events that are informed by visceral identification with her Jewish subjects that nonetheless are refreshingly free of the cant, partisanship, and outright racism that so often degrade narratives composed by members of the groups under discussion. This, of course, hardly makes Gay any sort of revisionist. She recounts most of the standard litany concerning the National Socialist persecution of the Jews in quite as much detail as would seem pertinent as antecedent to her actual subject. This, of course, entails the assignment of great blame to many German persons and institutions, recitation of whose names she spares the reader. Interestingly, while she makes ample reference to direct and indirect killing of Jews by Germans, she at no point asserts the existence or use of gas chambers, except as such views happen to appear in quotations she presents that bear on her own subject. And, at least to attentive readers, she is unsparing in describing the policies and practices of the Soviet Union and other non-German agents in treating Jewish refugees in a manner that, at the end of the day, is very difficult to distinguish from the fates that befell Jews at the hands of Germans.
Berg shared documents from his personal files including several having to do with the construction and sale of German air-raid-shelter components. While going through these wartime materials, we first saw the Repal advertisement for “air defense shelter doors and shutters, in steel.” We immediately recognized that the gas-resistant door with protected peephole was identical to the Majdanek “gas-chamber door” replica that the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM) had put on display for an American audience at their new museum on the National Mall.
“I herewith order that the resettlement of the entire Jewish population of the General Government be carried out and completed by December 31, 1942. From December 31, 1942, no persons of Jewish origin may remain within the General Government, unless they are in concentration camps in Warsaw, Cracow, Czestochowa, Radom, and Lublin. All other work on which Jewish labor is employed must be finished by that date, or, in the event that this is not possible, it must be transferred to one of the concentration camps.”
Ill. 2: Members of the United States Congress before the crematory ovens of Buchenwald in 1945. Note the central muffle of the first oven with the door open in the left foreground. Source: http://www.vho.org/GB/Books/thottc/Image29.jpg.
Designing a single large extermination camp would be somewhat risky, so let’s suppose he goes with two camps—good to have a back-up facility, just in case. Likely both would be of similar construction, and each would be designed to handle half load, that is, about 2,100 people per day. So he drafts up a standard carbon monoxide gassing structure: one building with 3 chambers, each, say, 4 x 5 meters. Assuming (conservatively) 5 people per square meter, each room could gas 100 people; thus, 3 rooms can handle 300 at a time.
“Many executions by gas or shooting or injections took place right in the camp. The gas chamber was completed in 1944, and I was called by Dr. Rascher to examine the first victims. Of the eight or nine persons in the chamber there were three still alive, and the remainder appeared to be dead. Their eyes were red, and their faces were swollen. Many prisoners were later killed in this way.”
At the trial, the prosecution strenuously objected to Tesch’s statement that Auschwitz’s demand for a larger supply of Zyklon was unsurprising due to the fact that Auschwitz was a larger camp.[103] Their plan for the EZS argument was to claim, based on inaccurate statements from Drosihn, that the SS could not carry out disinfection of barracks without the help of TESTA technicians, but could only perform gassings in gas chambers. Therefore all Zyklon sent to Auschwitz had to be used in (delousing) gas chambers or for homicidal purposes. As the quantities ordered were in excess of those needed by delousing chambers, therefore Tesch had to know that Zyklon was being used for mass extermination of humans at Auschwitz. Tesch rejected these arguments as well:
Shlomo Dragon said that the cottage was “a little house with a thatched roof” that served as a gas chamber. When asked how the SS threw the gas into the cottage, Shlomo replied: “There was a little window in the side wall.” Dragon stated that he “could sense the sweetish taste of the gas.” According to Dragon, the Sonderkommandos dragged the bodies out of the alleged gas chamber “by the hands,” and then “threw them into the carts, lugged them to the pits, and threw them into the pits.”[20]
So we ought not bother to look for a nice, clean 'Hitler order.' And the lack of one—or even any indirect reference to one—should not trouble us. The Holocaust was "a highly complicated decision-making process," and thus we should naturally expect to find gaps in the chain of command. Naturally.
“There were indeed millions of innocent people whom the Nazis killed in many horrific ways, some in the course of the war and some because the Germans perceived them—however deluded their perception—to pose a threat to their rule. They suffered terribly. But that was not the Holocaust.
The following table contains data about all the entries in Czech’s Chronicle referring to arrivals of deportation transports at Auschwitz which are mentioned either in extant documents by the German authorities responsible for these deportation trains, and/or in the clandestinely compiled list of registered arrivals mentioned earlier.[7] The meaning of each column is as follows:
There is no hatred in trying to determine what actually happened in the Nazi concentration camps. There is no hatred in attempting to learn the real fate of the Germans’ slave laborers and “racial undesirables” during these tragic years. There is likewise no hoping for a return to this dark time. In fact, as revisionists, we hope that our efforts lead to a greater peace between nations and goodwill between peoples.[6]
Henryk Tauber said in his deposition: “The people going to be gassed and those in the gas chamber damaged the electrical installations, tearing the cables out and damaging the ventilation equipment.”[11]
It’s a weak alibi. The honchos of Holocaustianity are painfully aware that putative “homicidal Auschwitz gas-chamber eyewitnesses” were eviscerated under cross-examination by lawyer Doug Christie during the 1985 trial in Canada of Ernst Zündel, for spreading “false news.” This was the actual reason there was no appearance by them at Lipstadt’s trial. At this point in the film, as I sat in the theater I jotted in my review notes, “Movie omits to mention Zündel trial’s discrediting cross-examinations of Judaic witnesses.”
Kuznetsov wrote: “On September 29th, 1941, for example, every single eye witness of what happened in Babi Yar was executed, but the people of Kurenyovka knew all about it an hour after the first shots had been fired.”[xxi] So Kuznetsov says that he knows of no living eyewitnesses to the massacre of some 33,771 Jews at Babi Yar. Kuznetsov attempts to document the alleged atrocity at Babi Yar with almost exclusively hearsay evidence.
According to Holocaust historiography, beginning in mid-May 1944, when numerous convoys of Hungarian Jews were arriving at Auschwitz almost every day, the crematoria at Birkenau could not handle the cremation of the enormous numbers of “gassing victims,” so cremation pits were dug in the courtyards to the north of Crematorium IV and in the courtyard of “Bunker 2.” According to Franciszek Piper [chair of the Historical Department at the Auschwitz State Museum- ed.], 10,000 bodies a day were cremated in these pits, 5,000 in each of them.[2]
Bernard Clarke was not the only Jew who tortured Germans to obtain confessions. Tuviah Friedman, for example, was a Polish Jew who survived the German concentration camps. Friedman by his own admission beat up to 20 German prisoners a day to obtain confessions and weed out SS officers. Friedman stated:[15]
The subject of Holocaust Denial continues to permeate and suffuse nearly every organ comprising the body politic of the Western world, and nary a day passes by without this topic being raised somewhere in the international media as it increasingly assumes inordinate world-wide significance with world-wide consequences and repercussions, It has, in fact, become an international obsession - an unhealthy fixation in a visibly hurting and ailing society tremulously awaiting the coup de grace to our civil liberties.
Other historians cite evidence that bodies were incinerated beyond recognition. These incinerated bodies would not have to be transported to another location. For example, Marshall De Bruhl cites a report found in an urn by a gravedigger in 1975 written on March 12, 1945 by a young soldier identified only as Gottfried. This report stated:
Until very recently, a map clearly predating Columbus’s first voyage of discovery was widely considered evidence that Norsemen had “discovered” North America first. In fact, at the time it came to light (that is, onto the market), it constituted the best, if not the only evidence of this notion; discovery and dating of Norse settlements in Newfoundland coming only some years after the map’s first sale and purchase. Suddenly, the map is now seen to be a fake dating from about 1956, and all the studies of the map’s parchment and ink (the first, ancient, the second, recent), its content (the north coast of Greenland, which no one had mapped until 1896), and its philology (archaic Latinate forms of Norse names) were cast into irrelevance by a certain almost-casual investigator’s organization of a few already-known historical facts into a narrative that beggars refutation.
Which absurd auxiliary thesis will come next? Maybe the one by Dr. Richard Green, who seriously proposed that the cyanide residues in the disinfestation chambers did not stem from fumigations, but were caused by objects leaning against the wall which had been soaked in a “hydrogen-cyanide solution”? Where then do the cyanide residues close to the ceiling, in the middle and outside of the wall come from?[10]
The idea of the Holocaust being a ‘myth’ or a ‘legend’ is one that he has often expressed, but this does not necessarily mean he believes the whole narrative is pure invention. After all, most ‘myths’ or ‘legends’ contain a core of fact.
Lipstadt then continues with this most revealing storyline: “Wiesenthal admitted to Bauer that he had invented a historical fantasy in order to give the Holocaust a more universal cast and to find a number which was almost as large as the Jewish death toll but not quite equal to it. When Elie Wiesel challenged Wiesenthal to provide some historical proof that five million non-Jews were murdered in the camps, Wiesenthal, rather than admit that he invented the five million number, accused Wiesel of ‘Judeocentrism,’ being concerned only about Jews (p. 9).”
For a war, or even a Holocaust, 44 years might be about the time the largest numbers of veterans (the term is as apposite for Holocaust veterans as for war veterans, neither of whom is necessarily a willing volunteer) were dying natural deaths. Those either mourning their fathers and brothers and those seeking to claw martyrdom back from the dead onto themselves might perceive the greatest impetus, or opportunity, to erect memorials, to their beloveds, or to the involuntary donors of vicarious martyrdom.
Romanov accepts my explanation in this regard, commenting that, “the argument seems reasonable in this regard, and it’s a shame that traditional researchers didn’t offer it earlier” - that is, that the explanation was proposed by a revisionist researcher rather than an exterminationist. Subtracting the 1,298 Jews from Radom from the presumed number of gassing victims – 2,897 Gypsies, “who, according to Danuta Czech’s methodology, could have been gassed” and assuming that the 1,408 Gypsies transferred from Birkenau came from Auschwitz, he concludes that “the gassed Gypsies could have been (1,599 + 3,422) = 5,021”.
Around September of 1989, mainstream Holocaust historians began admitting that the four million figure was a deliberate myth, demonstrating that conspiracy (premeditated distortions introduced for political ends) was involved in the shaping of the Holocaust doctrine. According to Israeli historian Yehuda Bauer, the Poles wanted to create a “national myth,” so this “required” that a large number of both Poles and Jews lost their lives at Auschwitz. Polish propagandists intentionally exaggerated the figures, and told the world that 1.5 million Poles and 2.5 million Jews were murdered at Auschwitz concentration camp.[14]
To sum up, Birkenau camp was created as a Kriegsgefangenenlager in October 1941 as a feature of the “Generalplan Ost”.
What was this? Was Professor Rosen talking about me? It's come to the place where professors can't make mention of Mayan cenotes, bureaucracy during the Sung dynasty or a lunatic English poet without introducing some fatuous reference to Auschwitz. I read someplace fifteen years ago that there were already 200,000 bibliographical references to Auschwitz, and that was before the professors really got cooking. I suppose Auschwitz will start popping up in new editions of Grimm's collected tales for first readers.
I have just seen the most terrible place on the face of the earth—the German concentration camp at Maidanek, [at which] as many as 1,500,000 persons from nearly every country in Europe were killed in the last three years. I have been all through the camp, inspecting its hermetically sealed gas chambers, in which the victims were asphyxiated, and five furnaces in which the bodies were cremated.
On August 23, 1939, Germany and the Soviet Union entered into the Molotov-Ribbentrop agreement. This non-aggression pact contained a secret protocol which recognized a Russian sphere of influence in Eastern Europe. German recognition of this Soviet sphere of influence would not apply in the event of a diplomatic settlement of the German-Polish dispute. Hitler had hoped to recover the diplomatic initiative through the Molotov-Ribbentrop nonaggression pact. However, Chamberlain warned Hitler in a letter dated August 23, 1939, that Great Britain would support Poland with military force regardless of the Molotov-Ribbentrop agreement. Józef Beck also continued to refuse to negotiate a peaceful settlement with Germany.[44]
“According to my estimate, some 3,000,000 people perished at Auschwitz itself. I estimate that of these, 2,500,000 were gassed. Apart from personal experiences, these numbers were made entirely officially by Obersturmbann­f.[ührer] EICHMANN, the official in charge of Jewish issues at the RSHA, while reporting to the Reichsführer in April 1945. These were mainly Jews. I personally remember to have gassed 70,000 Russian PoWs during my time as commander in Auschwitz on the order of the Gestapo chiefs in charge. The maximum number of gassings on one day at Auschwitz was 10,000. This was the maximum that could be carried out on one day with the existing facilities. In personally remember the large mass transports, 90,000 from Slovakia, 65,000 from Greece, 110,000 from France, 20,000 from Belgium, 90,000 from Holland, 400,000 from Hungary, 250,000 from Poland and Upper Silesia, 100,000 from Germany and Theresienstadt.”
It gets worse: “The impossibility of determining an exact total becomes even more obvious when one examines closely the numbers given in the tables… Anything approaching a final total for the entire period of the war cannot be realized.” But wait—this is part of the “most well-documented event in history.” Why is this huge portion of the Holocaust such a mystery?
Although the various drawings of the underground facilities of these crematoria published by van Pelt always show double doors, ca. 2 m wide, for Piper the entrance to the alleged gas chamber measured only 1.92 by 1 meter wide (Anatomy …, p. 166). Piper does not say which way this narrow door opened.
“World War II interiors of gas chamber used by the Germans in the execution of prisoners. Demonstrating method of securing prisoners in gas chambers. Various Close-ups, pipes leading into room.”
It should be mentioned here in passing that there is testimonial evidence for the presence of German Jews also in Bobruisk. In 1971 a German witness testified that he had met and spoken with a German Jew from Mönchengladbach in the SS-Arbeitslager Bobruisk.[70] The Jews from Mönchengladbach were sent to Auschwitz, Łódź, Riga, and Theresienstadt.[71] Those sent to Riga went there via Düsseldorf, and included the witness Hilde Sherman-Zander (§3.3.2.).[72]
The Israeli newspaper Ha’aretz spewed considerable venom at Rosenberg calling him “a pretentious fool” and “grotesque.” But Ha’aretz too anticipated major revelations regarding the Holocaust in the diary. They conjectured,
[29] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 158.
In Germany alone, the list of victims of increased exponentially. Many of the victims were elderly and in various stages of declining health. Among the few names among many that might be presently cited, some will be familiar to us, although most will not, yet each and every one of them shares similar trials and tribulations: Udo Walendy, who at the age of 72 was still languishing in prison serving a three-year sentence, suffering with progressive heart disease, Günter Deckert, 57, served five years for expressing his opinion, Erhard Kemper, 70, arrested, released, recharged and re-sentenced. Fritz Rebhandel, 80, a former journalist and historian, who was sentenced to four years’ imprisonment in spite of the fact that he was seriously ill. Herbert Schweiger, 73, author, sentenced to 25 months in jail. Engineer Emil Lachout, who found himself in a similar situation as American poet Ezra Pound, who was railroaded in a political show trial and declared by court-appointed psychiatrists to be of “unsound mind.” Franz Radl, a student, received up to three years' imprisonment for passing out flyers. Jürgen Graf, teacher, author, historian, linguist, sentenced to 18 months, now living in exile. Arthur Vogt, 80 years of age and ailing, one year’s imprisonment. Tiudar Rudolph, 92, repeatedly incarcerated for expressing unpopular opinions. General Major Otto Ernst Remer, 85, sentenced to two years’ imprisonment, succeeded in fleeing to Spain with the help of friends, where he died whilst confined to a wheelchair after living four years in exile. His crime? Seeking to come to terms with his nation’s past and determine what did or did not occur in the concentration camps during the war years.
Shlomo Sand is a professor of history at Tel Aviv University. Though he does not advertise his origins as such, his 1946 birth in a displaced-persons camp in Linz, Austria identifies him as in some ways, like the country he lives in, a child of the Holocaust. While his book gives virtually no actual attention to the place of the Holocaust in his country’s mnemohistory, the three asides I counted in his book making reference to the concept (and to those who might “deny” it) all solidly express horror and indignation at what it constituted in terms of Jewish experience, and German guilt. Make no mistake: Shlomo Sand is a historical revisionist non pariel. That he appears to have exempted Holocaustiography from the scope of his revisionism could be tactical, to enable him to cling to at least tatters of his much-assailed Jewish loyalty for purposes of advancing those viewpoints in which he truly is expert, or (and this does not preclude the tactic just mentioned) it might be mere logistics, in which he economizes on his energies and knowledge in order to focus on a single goal. In this, whatever the forces or sympathies informing him, he resembles Norman Finkelstein, that heroic chronicler of abuses committed under cover of the atrocities embodied in the Holocaust narrative. Like Finkelstein, Sand assiduously abjures the slightest hint of attack upon the scripture of the Holocaust, leaving it in the capable hands of many contributors to Inconvenient History and a few—very few—other such journals.
“The Holocaust. A systematic mass murder meticulously planned and executed…”
During his pretrial interrogations by Israeli Police Inspector Avner Less, Eichmann spoke of his alleged observations of the “Nazi gas chambers.” Tape recordings of these statements were played in court (pp. 67-68). We remind the reader that when Eichmann made these assertions he was deprived of legal counsel and was all alone with the interrogators (p. 44). Was he under the influence of drugs? Was he coerced or bribed into making these statements? Did he make these statements to “please his captors” in the hope of escaping death by hanging?
Most important, however, there is need for a complete opening of all archives relating to the German occupiers' treatment of Jews in eastern territories, as well as all records on NKVD activity in the area prior to the war, combined with an exhaustive forensic-archaeological investigation of the Blagovshchina and Shashkovka sites conducted by an international and impartial scientific committee. Only then could it be determined how many people actually perished at Trostenets during the German occupation, and if it really warrants the epithet of "extermination camp".
In his first draft (Shn-1) Semyonov insinuated that the four stationary ovens of the new crematorium had been in operation “from March 1943 until April 1945”. This claim was incorrect, as this crematorium was put into operation as early as in the beginning of May 1942.
I continued my presentation with a definition of a political prisoner and the subsequent proof that we revisionists are a perfect match. Here are the ten criteria I listed, and I explained and proffered evidence that all these points are seen in the cases of prominent revisionists:
Peters repeated the story in a later affidavit,[185] adding that he had no suspicion that the requested delivery was for any purpose other than delousing. Peters’s testimony demonstrates that the description of Zyklon as “material for the resettlement of Jews”, is not at all suspicious or incriminating, but was commonplace and was correctly taken at face value.
By the late 1980s there was hardly a day when the Holocaust story was not mentioned in one of the Israeli newspapers. Such constant exposure encouraged many Israeli soldiers to plan ways to exterminate the Arabs. According to Israeli education-corps officer Ehud Praver, “too many soldiers were deducing that the Holocaust justifies every kind of disgraceful action.”[13]
According to his article, Warwick Hester made "from 1946 until now" (1954) "journeys into the European countries", in order to form an opinion about the question of the German guilt and the genocide. He travelled in the three Western Occupation Zones of Germany, to Barcelona, even to Cairo and Rio de Janeiro. The latter cities he visited to interview former German soldiers who lived there in exile and who had testified on German war crimes. As Warwick Hester found out, their statements were mostly based on hearsay. As he writes further, he had numerous talks with former concentration camp inmates, that he had done research of his own and studied files and documents. Such an interest and competence in the field of war crimes was unusual for an American private person, not to mention the costs of the research and journeys. But it could well correspond to a lawyer, who travels in order to sound out former witnesses of the prosecution and thus help his clients. Finally, Warwick Hester mentions his own "collection of documents" - where might it have ended up?
Hier scheinen wir einen Fall zu haben, wo ein prominenter Jude, der verstorbene Simon Wiesenthal, die Zahl der Holocaust-Opfer für politische Zwecke übertrieben hat.
Next–to-last in this survey of testimonial evidence I will discuss the letters and postcards sent to the Warsaw Ghetto in the latter half of 1942 from Jews who had been deported to the east. Since, to the knowledge of the author, none of those have been preserved (perhaps due to the recipients being themselves deported east later on), I will address this issue here and not below in the survey of documentary evidence.
According to the Soviet version of the events the “machine for the grinding of human bones” was found in the Yanov camp after the Red Army had reconquered Lemberg (27 July 1944). No documentary evidence corroborates this claim, and the three photographs do not prove it either. They are typical examples of Soviet “photographic evidence”: The vegetation, the position of the sun, shadows, buildings etc. – all these things are carefully blanked in order to prevent any identification of the time and the place where the picture was taken.
“Initially, Zyklon was introduced into the gas chambers by the simplest methods: the former detainee Antoni Szwajnoch, in 1942 assigned to the ‘Kanada I’ commando, testified that, after the beginning of the extermination activities in the ‘Red House’ and in the ‘White House’ [Bunkers I & II], he received the order from time to time to withdraw a few cans of Zyklon from the stock at the theater building, after which he had to run with them on the road to Brzezinka (Birkenau), while an SS guard watched him riding a bicycle at his side.” (p. 72)
It is in this month, as we know, that the European war becomes a truly world war, as Germany—after some two years of provocation—declares war on the U.S. in the wake of Pearl Harbor. Also this month, on the orthodox view, a milestone occurs: Chelmno begins its extermination process, with gas vans powered by diesel engines. Evidently, then, genocide was more than in the air; it was on the ground running. And Goebbels, in truth, does seem to ramp up his rhetoric; he makes his first overt references to the deaths of Jews:
But putting aside the virile hate directed against those who question the veracity of the typical Holocaust narrative, what is it that these people believe and say at the risk of imprisonment and bodily harm? For most Holocaust revisionists or deniers if you prefer, their arguments boil down to three simple contentions:
“When did you first hear about the mass murder of the Jews? Was it before you were put on the train to Auschwitz or after that?
To be clear: Over the past three decades, serious academic revisionist work has been conducted by just a handful of individuals. At the top of the list, we would include such men as Carlo Mattogno, Germar Rudolf, Jügen Graf, Thomas Kues, Friedrich Berg, and Samuel Crowell.[78] Of these, Mattogno is the most prolific, having written or co-written more than a dozen books in just the past 10 years. Their very latest work, along with that of several other researchers, is published with the online journal Inconvenient History.[79 ] The most important recent books are published in the series called Holocaust Handbooks, currently running to 28 volumes.[80] The best overview works are Rudolf’s Lectures on the Holocaust (2010) and Dalton’s Debating the Holocaust (2009). For a somewhat more detailed but still comprehensive look at all the major issues, see Rudolf’s anthology Dissecting the Holocaust (2003).
Matters escalated in 1935 with increasing restrictions on Jews. That year the Nuremberg Laws were enacted.126 Jews were divided by the Nuremberg Laws into full-Jews (Volljuden) and half-Jews (Mischlinge). Oddly for a regime based on race purity as an ideal, and moreover one supposedly intent on exterminating the Jewish race, the part-Jews were not interned; nor were Jewish partners in mixed marriages.127 However, the Nuremberg Laws did make sexual relations between Jews and “Aryans” illegal, and the Gestapo was responsible for investigating “race defilement” allegations.128 The usual sentence was an 18-month prison term. Three people were required to corroborate a charge for it to proceed, keeping the number of cases proceeding low.129 However, in 1938 Jews who had been arrested for breaching the Nuremberg Laws were ordered rearrested. The assassination of a German diplomat in Paris by Herschel Grynszpan in November 1938 unleashed anti-Semitic reactions throughout Germany, the so-called Kristallnacht. Although ten thousand Jews were sent to concentration camps, most were released within six weeks.130 While the extent of Kristallnacht has been disputed by revisionists, it seems reasonable to expect that measures would become increasingly strident to encourage Jews to leave, and McDonough states that after this regulations increased as did the “exodus” of Jews departing.131 McDonough states that it was Heydrich who insisted that Jews be deported from the Old Reich, as ghettos in Germany would breed disease and crime. The Gestapo organized the deportations with the assistance of the local Jewish community leaders.132 In February 1943, when 1700 Jewish men married to German women were going to be deported from Berlin and their wives protested, they were released on the order of Goebbels, as gauleiter of the city.133
[47] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, pp. 53-54.
[6] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 124.
The first section of this Act will work better under a mirror-reversal, whereby it is promoters of the Holocaust mythology who are continually inciting “hatred against segments of the population” and who are assaulting “the human dignity of others,” in a manner prohibited under this Act, whereby a “segment of the population” is made to suffer continually for something that should be relegated to the past. (The “segment” here comprises the remaining but diminishing older generation who fought in the War.) The public peace is very much disturbed by the inquisitors who check through personal libraries for books to be banned and burnt, and who monitor e-mails.
Let’s now turn to Prof. Butz. Since his one and only monograph on the Holocaust is rather famous, Lipstadt couldn’t dodge that bullet, but she chose to ignore the main points of Butz’s book and focus on minor issues instead. Some of them she misrepresents, and by so doing, she turns her own argument into a straw-man fallacy. If you are interested in details, get the Bungled book shown. Here, we will focus on Butz’s two main arguments which Lipstadt completely ignores.
Edwin Black did an incredible amount of research in writing IBM and the Holocaust. Because his research involved documents in numerous countries and languages, Black relied on a network of more than 100 researchers and translators in seven countries. Once documents were located, they were copied and sent to Black for his review and analysis. Ultimately, Black assembled more than 20,000 pages of documentation from archives, library manuscript collections, museum files and other repositories (pp. 1, 13).
Apparently, there are also another large number of Christians and non-Christians who accept the skewed theological beliefs of Susannah Heschel, as evidenced by the favorable—and utterly uncritical—reviews that her most recent book, The Aryan Jesus, received. One comes away from some of these naïve reviews wondering how such apparently intelligent and learned scholars could be so unthinking and spineless.[124]
Carlo Mattogno, il maestro massimo of Holocaust arcana, has expended on a recent initiative of the Holocaust industry, a quantum of energy and insight that for an average person (this reviewer, for one) would represent the greater part of a life’s work. For Sig. Mattogno, compared with the massive work he has already done and published on the revisionist side, however, it seems the effort might be closer to that exerted by a cow brushing pesky flies off her back with her tail. I have not perused the work(s—two of them actually, in succession) that our maestro demolishes in Inside the Gas Chambers, but the numerous quotations he makes from them leave me with the impression that his exhaustive, scrupulous attentions are not even quite deserved by the insipid scrivening that constitutes the great bulk of the works he flatters with his opprobrium.
While according to Lipstadt the Morgenthau Plan was not happening, the eminent Jewish Left-wing publisher Victor Gollancz, founder of the influential Left Book Club, had returned to London from a visit to Germany. He wrote in letters to London newspapers of the British occupation zone where Germans were reduced to starvation, of the dismantling of industries, and the expulsion of refugees from their homes in the East, to overfill German cities such as Hamburg that had been reduced to rubble. Gollancz published these letters and other reports in two books, In Darkest Germany, and Our Threatened Values. Despite his prominence, Gollancz could not find a major American publisher, so his two books were offered for publication to Regnery.[27] The Gollancz books were the first to be published by Henry Regnery Company.[28] Oddly, Gollancz is missing from Lipstadt’s list of Holocaust deniers and relativists. Our Threatened Values had an important review in Time, describing Gollancz as “retaining his Jewish faith and socialist belief,” while stating that humanity’s salvation rests with the uniting of “traditional religious ethics” with Western secular beliefs, based on mercy, love and respect.
Dr. Charles Larson’s forensic work at Dachau indicated that only a small percentage of the deaths at Dachau were due to medical experimentation on humans. His autopsies showed that most of the victims died from natural causes; that is, of disease brought on by malnutrition and filth caused by wartime conditions. In his depositions to Army lawyers, Dr. Larson made it clear that one could not indict the whole German people for the National Socialist medical crimes. Dr. Larson sincerely believed that although Dachau was only a short ride from Munich, most of the people in Munich had no idea what was going on inside Dachau.[23]
In spite of Churchill’s protestations, the British terror bombings continued unabated until the end of the war. On May 3, 1945, the British Royal Air Force attacked the German Cap Arcona and Thielbek passenger ships. Both of these ships were flying many large white flags with huge Red Cross emblems painted on the sides of the ships. The British attacks, which were a violation of international law, resulted in the deaths of approximately 7,000 prisoners being shipped from the Neuengamme Concentration Camp to Stockholm. When large numbers of corpses dressed in concentration-camp garb washed ashore the German coastline a few days later, the British claimed the Germans had intentionally drowned the prisoners in the Baltic Sea. It took years for the truth of these illegal British attacks to be made public.[10]
As the British magistrate noted, there is next to nothing remaining at the German camps to substantiate the traditional Holocaust story. He wrote: “What is the evidence for mass extermination of Jews at those camps? The consequence of the absence of any overt documentary evidence of gas chambers at these camps, coupled with the lack of archeological evidence, means that reliance has to be placed on eyewitness and circumstantial evidence…”[28]
Inside the Gas Chambers: The Extermination of Mainstream Holocaust Historiography by Carlo Mattogno.
Yet when it comes to the “Holocaust,” most governments discourage us from using our own intelligence. Some of them even threaten us with prosecution, and they insist that we follow the guidance of others. Karl Popper characterized a society where the authorities enforce a “state belief” and impose taboos as a closed, dogmatic, archaic society. [11] The modern, open society, in contrast, encourages criticism of traditional dogmas. In fact, this is its foremost hallmark.[12]
The rules of evidence used at the Dachau trial were also extremely lax. For example, hearsay evidence presented by the prosecution was routinely allowed by the judges. Such testimony was permitted at the Dachau trial if it seemed “relevant to a reasonable man.” This departure from normal Anglo-Saxon law was intended to compensate for the fact that some eyewitnesses had died in the camp.[53]
A. I do not know; there were a lot of bugs in Auschwitz.[93]
Remark: Michel de Boüard was a professional historian, indeed the ablest French historian on the subject of the wartime deportations. Up to 1985 he defended the strictly orthodox and official position. Upon reading the revisionist Henri Roques’s doctoral thesis on the alleged testimony of SS man Kurt Gerstein, he saw his error. He honestly acknowledged it, going so far as to say that, if he hitherto personally upheld the existence of a gas chamber in the Mauthausen camp, he had done so wrongly, on the faith of what was said around him. (His untimely death in 1989 deprived the revisionist camp of an eminent personality who had resolved to publish a new work aiming to put historians on their guard against the official lies of Second World War history).
Black writes that the Aktion Reinhardt camps in Poland such as Treblinka were operated for the sole purpose of immediate extermination by gas chambers (p. 351). However, the Aktion Reinhardt camps were transit camps rather than extermination camps. The demographic studies, the statements from Heinrich Himmler, the reports of transfers of Jews from the Aktion Reinhardt camps to Auschwitz and Majdanek, the lack of credible forensic evidence that mass exterminations occurred in these camps, the photographic and engineering evidence, the impossibility of disposing of so many bodies in such a short period of time, the relative lack of secrecy and security in the camps, and the small size of the areas where the bodies were supposedly buried all indicate that the Aktion Reinhardt camps were transit camps.[10]
It has to be kept in mind that November 4, 1941 was also the day when the Topf Company confirmed the order by the Construction Office of Auschwitz (placed on October 22) of five furnaces with three muffles each, two devices for the introduction of a casket (Sarg-Einführungs-Vorrichtungen), three forced-draft devices (Saugzug-Anlagen), and one waste-incineration furnace (Müll-Verbrennungs-Ofen).[36]
The next day was 6 May 1944. At the time, Crematorium III (like Crematorium II) was not surrounded by any "picket fence three meters high" which would have cut off the view of the respective courtyards, as shown in particular by photograph no. 153 in the Auschwitz Album, taken on 26 May 1944, which shows that the eastern half and a good part of the courtyard of Crematorium III were clearly visible because it was surrounded only by a barbed-wire fence[55]. This photograph also appears in Venezia’s book, with a misleading caption: "Group of women and children – Hungarian Jews – about to enter Crematorium II"[56]. The photographs in the Auschwitz Album taken later show in fact that this group of persons travelled up the Hauptstrasse (Main Street) bypassing Crematoria II and III, and through the Ringstrasse (ring road),[57] ending up in the little forest near the small lake located east of Crematorium IV[58].
[6] Pasternak, Alfred, Inhuman Research: Medical Experiments in German Concentration Camps, Budapest, Hungary: Akadémiai Kiadó, 2006, p. 149.
The case of Treblinka is even more instructive. While some of the earlier witnesses indeed mentioned gas chambers, none of them claimed that the murder weapon was a diesel engine. On August 17, 1942, the Polish underground newspaper Informacja biezaca told of a mobile gas chamber which moved along the mass graves.[30] Three weeks later, on September 8, the same paper described the alleged gassings as follows: The victims were exposed to a gas with retarded effect, whereupon they left the gas chambers, walked to the mass graves, fainted and fell into the graves.[31] However, the main killing method depicted by the witnesses was hot steam. On November 15, 1942, the Resistance Movement of the Warsaw Ghetto published a long report in which it stated that between late July and early November, two million Jews had been exterminated at Treblinka in steam chambers.[32]
In the Preface to the complete English translation of Rudolf Höss’s notes which he wrote while in Polish custody in Cracow, Steven Paskuly, editor of the work, writes that they “are perhaps the most important document attesting the Holocaust” (Paskuly, p. 11). In his introduction, he adds (ibid., p. 21):
Emphasizing the scope and urgency of the matter under discussion, the legal experts referred to these efforts as “historical manipulation,” and declared “No one should have to prove that the Holocaust took place.”[34]
Certainly, economic factors usually play a role in the relationships between nations. As in the case of Poland, Great Britain had an economic motive in their promotion of the Holocaust ideology. There is a history of commercial and industrial rivalry between England and Germany, as they were both long-time competitors for overseas markets. The Holocaust ideology aided England in their psychological discrediting of their economic competitor Germany.[100]
The Chicago Sun-Times newspaper chimed in with the rising criticism directed at Mr. Leuchter and remarked that “the state [of Illinois] cut its ties with him over statements that Nazi gas chambers, including those at Auschwitz, could not have been used for executing Jews.”[12]
Under the subsequent leadership of Ignatz Bubis, the organization extended its influence by snooping and interfering in nearly every facet of German public life. The highly controversial Bubis was among the first to advocate harsh penalties for Holocaust deniers and called upon the German nation to preserve the “memory of the Holocaust.” Over the years, Bubis himself was beset and dogged by numerous scandals involving financial irregularities, speculation, and swindling, and drew the ire of both the left and right wing in Germany. Due to his perceived lack of ethics, Bubis was satirized by German playwright and film director Werner Fassbinder in his play, Trash, the City and Death, which debuted in the city of Frankfurt in 1985. Having caught wind of the play’s theme, Bubis was irate over Fassbinder’s depiction of him as a modern Shylock and countered by hijacking the stage with a number of his cohorts, forcibly preventing the play from opening.[15]
Why is this admission of such importance? One of the standard charges leveled against Holocaust revisionism by Deborah Lipstadt is that it is a groundless “conspiracy theory.” She describes “Holocaust deniers” as “a group motivated by a strange conglomeration of conspiracy theories, delusions, and neo-Nazi tendencies.”[3] Consider her attack upon Professor Arthur Butz’s Holocaust revisionist classic, The Hoax of the Twentieth Century: “Despite its veneer of impartial scholarship, Butz’s book is replete with the same expressions of traditional anti-Semitism, philo-Germanism and conspiracy theory as the Holocaust denial pamphlets printed by the most scurrilous neo-Nazi groups.”[4]
Serious contradictions in the traditional Sobibor extermination story are seemingly endless. Operation Reinhardt expert Arad says this: “The first gas chambers erected in Sobibor were in a solid brick building with a concrete foundation.”[34] This is challenged by Sobibor historian Schelvis, who writes that “[T]he first gas chambers of Sobibor had been constructed of wood.”[35] Let us delve into this very important issue in more detail.
“What struck me about the camp was the smell. By then we knew it was an extermination camp: we saw chimneys and the fire was very high. ‘You go through the chimney’ – that was the standard saying. I never heard about the gas chambers, so I didn’t know how people were killed. But we saw the chimneys and we associated the flames with the transports coming in...” (ibid.)
Preoccupied, Cole soon went to visit McCalden, only to receive the news that the guy had died of AIDS, leaving behind a massive collection of books and private correspondence that, by default, fell into Cole’s possession. Whatever inchoate doubts or questions Cole had entertained about the standard Holocaust historiography, it seems fair to surmise that his “identity” as a non-dogmatic Holocaust revisionist crystallized in the months-long binge of immersive reading that followed. I imagine it was with some nostalgia that Cole recalls his underground education:
Soon after 1945, the received version was that the Nazis had murdered around eleven million people - six million Jews, and about five million Poles. Others too were identified as victims, but those were the two most significant victim categories. It was said that these eleven million people were dispatched mainly by mass gassings. Such gassings occurred, as the story went in all the Nazi concentration camps. Auschwitz - actually a constellation of camps but collectively perceived as one large one - stood out as the main site of these gassings.
“As you know, the same facility as at Linz is being built at the Dachau concentration camp. Since the ‘transports of invalids’ end up in certain chambers anyway, I ask whether the effect of our various combat gases can be tested on people who are destined for that anyway? So far, all we have are experiments with animals, or reports on accidents during the production of these gases. Because of this paragraph, I am sending my letter marked ‘Secret.’”
November 1, 2006: this drawing by “Chard” (the Frenchwoman Françoise Pichard, of Paris) received second prize in the international cartoon contest on the “Holocaust” organised by Iran.
Tony Robbins also mentions Viktor Frankl and his heroic survival at Auschwitz and other German camps.[4] However, we will let our next self-help guru explain how Frankl found peace after surviving the “hell on earth” of Auschwitz.
His Table 5.2 contemplates an initial concentration of 10,000 ppm of HCN,[81] which is the one more consistent with orthodox the Holocaust narrative, even though it is too low.
David Irving pertinently remarked: “the PRO [Public Record Office, now called The National Archive] evidently did not allow invasive forensic tests on the paper and ink (which would have slightly damaged the suspect documents); they permitted only the most superficial external microscopic examinations, so they believed prima facie that they were genuine. It was the chemical tests which exposed the Hitler Diaries as fakes. Such tests are conclusive,” adding, “ink-oxidisation analysis will give a good date for the signatures, if they are fake.” The (unpublished) account by Audrey Giles commented on how “destructive analysis could be carried out to determine if the inks used on the documents are consistent with inks used in the 1940s”[9] – so why did nobody ask her to do that? If the NA really believed the documents had been forged, why would they not have requested this, given the far-reaching implications of this matter?
Lipstadt’s chapter on Smith is a telling exposé of how she has been and keeps conspiring with her like-minded colleagues to suppress Smith’s campaign for intellectual freedom and open debate on the Holocaust. Lipstadt claims that this is not a matter of First Amendment rights, because the First Amendment merely prevents the United States government from passing laws to limit free speech. While this is formally correct, it is also like saying that, while the U.S. government has to abide by the law, we normal people can act as we damn well please. In contrast, the Bill of Rights should be a moral example of how any responsible, powerful group of people should behave. Lipstadt’s excuse on page 215 that, if the revisionists get turned down by one media outlet, quote, “there are always other publications,” unquote, is a bad joke, because it’s been her and her comrades’ mission in life to make sure that there isn’t any, quote, “other publication,” unquote, except for those the revisionists publish themselves, and then Lipstadt and company strive to make sure that the sale of this revisionist material is banned everywhere else, too. It’s like saying: “Yeah, you have the right to speak, but only to yourself!” Hence, this is not just about having the right to speak freely, but also for everyone to decide for themselves who they want to listen to. Using power the way Dr. Lipstadt and her ilk have been using it for decades in order to prevent others from being able to hear is a violent act. It’s like locking you up in a soundproof room.
Venezia was also unaware that the supposed "Bunker 2", according to Sz. Dragon, was sub-divided into four areas, and had 4 exits and entrances, as well as 5 Zyklon B introduction ports. For D. Paisikovic, on the other hand, it had 3 areas[77], while based on the topographical survey of Auschwitz Museum dated 29 July 1985, it had 7 areas[78].
The case for the British gassing of Iraqis in the 1920s seems neither more nor less convincing than the case for the Germans having gassed Jews during the 1940s. Whether one, neither, or both events actually took place is not the concern here. The question is: why are those who raise the same questions in regard to the ‘Holocaust’ as those raised by Prof. Douglas and promoted by the prestigious Churchill Centre, published by Science Daily, and as a scholarly paper in The Journal of Modern History,[13] not accorded the same hearing as those involved with any other form of historical revisionism? Why has ‘holocaust revisionism’ been excluded, on pain of banishment, imprisonment, pillorying, and even death[14], as just another aspect of historical revisionism? The questions raised by the so-called ‘Holocaust deniers’ are in substance no different from those raised in regard to numerous applications of revisionism, such as those of Prof. Douglas.
At the present time, it is impossible for anyone (including John Demjanjuk) to contest the traditional extermination story in a German court. Revisionist historian Robert Faurisson profiled the situation perfectly when he pointed out that “Holocaust denial” is “an offense which is punishable with up to five years imprisonment. In Germany, no exonerating evidence may be introduced in such trials, since the same evidence would constitute ‘denial’ as well and would merely lead to another criminal indictment of the defendant and his lawyer.”[114]
Mauthausen defense attorney Lt. Patrick W. McMahon, in his closing argument to the Dachau Tribunal, said there was grave doubt that the defendants’ statements were freely given. Further, the striking similarity of the language made it obvious the statements contained only language desired by the interrogators. McMahon cited numerous examples in which defendants used similar language to say crimes committed at Mauthausen could not be ascribed to any one leader. In regard to shootings to prevent further escapes, McMahon also cited several examples where similar language was used in the defendants’ statements.[32]
…The Gestapo and SD were likewise involved in the commission of Crimes against Peace. The very incident that served as an excuse for the invasion of Poland, and thus set off the entire war, was executed by the Gestapo and the SD. I refer to the simulated Polish attack on the radio station at Gleiwitz. where concentration camp prisoners were dressed in Polish, uniforms, murdered, and left as evidence of a Polish raid, so as to afford Hitler a justification for the attack upon Poland. (Source: http://avalon.law.yale.edu/imt/08-29-46.asp)
[Note that there is no mention of a gas chamber. That accusation was dropped before trial, but reintroduced into evidence at Nuremberg, even though it was known to be false. – C.P.]
Here they refer to this as “a” gas chamber,[34] of course ignoring that it was one of the four used to delouse clothing.
The assumption that Gestapo officers arrested individuals, interrogated them brutally, then sent them to a concentration camp, is a myth. Each case was dealt with exhaustively before any decision on punishment was decided upon. Most of those arrested ended up within the traditional justice system, and were charged with a specific crime that was dealt with by the courts. Sending individuals to a concentration camp was always a last resort, especially for an ordinary German citizen who was not linked to the selected target opposition groups. Many of those arrested were released without any charge.18
Lipstadt wrote, “we will debate much about it but not whether it happened.”12 For Lipstadt “it” cannot and should not be discussed. But history is about inquiry. In fact the word, derived from the Greek historia means "inquiry, knowledge acquired by investigation." David Irving never wrote or claimed “the Holocaust did not happen.” In several articles and books Irving comments on the millions of Jews who perished and has even accepted that certain concentration camps utilized gas chambers to carry out mass exterminations.
In the fallout following the Zündel trial, the Mannheim state attorney’s office filed charges against Zündel’s defense team, notably Juergen Rieger and Sylvia Stoltz for “incitement of the masses.” According to a statement issued by the prosecutor’s office, Zündel’s attorneys repeatedly disputed and played down the alleged genocide of Jews in World War Two. The state attorney’s office is seeking their disbarment.
People wonder how on earth great tyrannies, so obviously against the interests of the vast majority of the peoples affected, were allowed to come into being in past times. One explanation is summed up in the old phrase: ‘Give a dog a bad name and then hang him!’ The 2005 UNO resolution and the 2009 declaration appear clearly to be bent upon ‘giving a bad name’ to Holocaust revisionists, whose researches threaten what appears to be the rise to power of a malign elite.
Racism too, is a sticky topic for the victorious powers. Although the American Jewish community have thrived, post war, to the point where despite only comprising two percent of the population, nearly fifty percent of the nation’s billionaires are Jewish[15], other minorities do not fare so well. Twenty Four percent of blacks live below the poverty line in the States, for example, as opposed to eight percent of whites.[16] Three percent of the black male population of the United States is in prison, as compared to less than half a percent for whites.[17] Tokenistic, yet powerful evidence of America’s racial divide was also provided by the pictures of the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans in 2005. The scenes, broadcast worldwide, showed a form of economic apartheid, whereby the black underclass found themselves bereft and stranded, while the rest of the population escaped. As, apparently, race is only skin deep and theories of racial difference are evil and automatically lead to exterminating millions in death camps, we cannot ascribe any of this to racial difference. These kinds of discrepancies can only be the result of an utterly racist American society. It should be remembered too that immediately after Nuremberg and until the 1960s, racial segregation was still official policy in the southern states.
Nyiszli made numerous false claims in his memoirs about the alleged homicidal gas chambers and crematoria at Birkenau. For example, Nyiszli wrote regarding a crematorium at Birkenau that “what is really impressive is the column of fire 8-10 meters high which gushes from its mouth between the lightning rods at its four corners.”[27] As documented by many researchers, it is physically impossible for flames to gush from the smokestacks of crematoria.
The Höfle Document together with testimonial as well as archeological evidence also strongly suggest that the deportees passing through the camps underwent some form of registration.[55] First of all this would have filled the purpose of ascertaining the exact numbers of Jews processed by Aktion Reinhardt. Data on sex, age and possibly also professional background could have been used to determine the circumstances of resettlement.
In 1946-1947, the Central Commission for Investigation of German Crimes in Poland claimed that 250,000 people were murdered at the alleged Nazi extermination camp of Sobibor. Israeli and Polish archeologists who investigated the Sobibor site found no physical evidence to prove the Sobibor “gas chambers” existed, or that hundreds of thousands were massacred there.[18] For sure, these forensic scientists (who are firm believers in the traditional Holocaust extermination story) find it difficult to imagine how 250, 000 could have been murdered there.[19] To date, archeological science cannot determine the site of the “gas chambers” or even if they existed. The reader is strongly encouraged to read the forensic study to see that this is indeed the case.[20]
Whereas the Soviet Extraordinary State Commission claimed that 6,500 people had been shot or burned alive at the Trostenets estate during the last days of June 1944 (cf. §2.1.), the Koblenz court estimated only some 500 deaths at Trostenets for this period, most of them Jewish skilled workers still remaining in Minsk and at the estate.[62] Gerlach on the other hand has it that part of the skilled Jewish workers still remaining in Minsk in June 1944 were deported to Auschwitz.[63]
The German White Book ‘Gleiwitz Incident’ entry of 31 August 1939 originates with 1) Abwehr/Grenzpolizei traitors, or 2) Police President W. Schade. Since Herr Schade was conveniently murdered in a postwar Polish concentration camp in 1945, as aforesaid, he is not the likeliest suspect. Unfortunately, Canaris was killed by the Nazi state for his long-time duplicity, so there will likely never be a sure way to confirm who, precisely, originated this official report. Suffice it to say that in the light of all the evidence, or lack thereof, as well as the Mosty Incident, which implicates the Abwehr, Grenzpolizei and Canaris in provable ‘war crimes’ as well as in regard to violation of Poland’s sovereignty when war was not yet on, the Abwehr, Grenzpolizei and Canaris are the likeliest suspects. I hardly need mention that Hitler called the war off on 25 August[21], so if he was going to utilize alleged “false flag” raids at Gleiwitz, H/H and Pitschen as his reason(s) for war, why would all three “false flags” only be planned for (and actually take place on) 31 August and not also on the evening/early morning of 24/25 August as with Mosty? Talk about playing with fire! Please recall that the invasion took place on 1 September, not on 26 August as originally planned. It was not until recently that the official narrative tried to mitigate this blatant error. Every single account has asserted that all three “raids” took place on the evening/early morning of 31 August. Moreover, why did Hitler neglect to mention a single one of these most-coveted of false-flag events by name in his declaration of war speech the next day? That’s a huge problem that not a single historian has addressed. Until now, of course.
In addition to reporting that the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek were structurally unsuitable for gassing conscious victims, Leuchter researched the chemical properties of the Zyklon B fumigant. Leuchter found that Zyklon B is a highly toxic compound that, when exposed to air releases deadly hydrogen-cyanide gas. The released hydrogen-cyanide gas clings to surfaces and reacts chemically with materials containing iron, forming ferrocyanide compounds that have a distinctive blue color called Prussian Blue. Since masonry building materials normally contain a certain amount of rust (iron oxide, usually between 1% and 4%), repeated exposure to hydrogen-cyanide gas would result in Prussian Blue staining on the walls of the alleged gas chambers.[6]
This doesn’t stop Israel’s Holocaust Museum and others from spreading gas shower nonsense. The “HistoryWiz” website presents an important quote
This article documents some of the Jewish attorneys, investigators and witnesses whose words and actions prove that the Allied-run war-crimes trials were politically motivated proceedings which failed to produce credible evidence of the so-called Holocaust.
And forty-five years afterwards there was to be something even more abhorrent in the domain of law: in France, “homeland of human rights”, Laurent Fabius and his people got a Socialist-Communist majority in Parliament to pass (and to have published in the Journal Officiel de la République Française on July 14, 1990, for the 201st anniversary of the storming of the Bastille, bastion of the privilege-based regime of another time) a law forbidding, on pain of fine and imprisonment, any dispute (in whatsoever manner – including ironic expressions, as case law was to specify) of the reality of those crimes committed especially against Jews, a reality, however, never described or established by any technical or forensic police service. (On this point one will be wary of old Polish examinations attesting the existence of traces of hydrogen cyanide in hair or in metal objects – all disinfected –, or of an examination undertaken at quite a late date – around 1990 – in an attempt to reply to the “Leuchter Report” of 1988;4 that study, done by the Jan Sehn Institute in Cracow, proved embarrassing for the Poles and valuable for the revisionists). And I shall not expand here on the saga, in Vienna, of the forensic examination by Gerhard Jagschitz, or that by Walter Lüftl; the reader may look up those two names in my Ecrits révisionnistes in order to have an idea of the behaviour of certain Austrian judges who, seized with daring, ordered an examination and then, taking fright, capitulated. The name of a certain captain Fribourg, of the French army, and his “beginning of a study” of the alleged Dachau gas chamber may also be found.
Fourth, the improved "gas van" with a tiltable cargo box did not make it into the orthodox historiography on this particular alleged murder weapon (although an isolated mention of it appears in a holocaust anthology originally published in 1983).[19] It is not found in any Minsk/Trostenets testimony that I am aware of.
Holocaust revisionism, as most of its supporters prefer to label their efforts includes various shades of meaning. It is a more complex term than Holocaust denial—Oldspeak, if you will. Gone is the two-legs-bad, four-legs-good equation of Holocaust denial equals Fascism and anti-Semitism. The term itself suggests that the Holocaust is a series of events that truly occurred albeit one whose regnant history—unrepaired damage from the past world war—requires correction or revision. It suggests that something is wrong with what is known – but not that all is wrong. It leaves open the possibility that what you believe may not all be correct. It suggests that the stories that we have grown up with may have developed from the emotionally charged subject itself. It opens a pathway to exploration and discovery.
A relative of a prominent Holocaust revisionist recently said that the argument Holocaust supporters fear most is “the physical, chemical, topographical, architectural, and documentary evidence of the impossibility of the homicidal gas chamber.” She writes, “And, believe me, the only thing they fear is that people may learn that there were no homicidal gas chambers, and that Jews have lied about that particular point.”
In 1948, Rassinier published Le Passage de la ligne (Crossing the Line), which was the first in a series of books that purported to show that the claims of many self-described concentration camp survivors were in fact grossly exaggerated. Rassinier denounced the brutal camp overseers, or kapos, rather than the SS staff, as being primarily responsible for the many cruelties inflicted on inmates in the camps.
Our statement in Sobibór that “no Hungarian Jews ever reached the eastern areas”[123] is, as we also note in that study, an approximation, as it is documented that 1,217 Hungarian Jewesses (and 1 male Hungarian Jew) were deported by the SiPo in Riga and Kaunas to Stutthof during the period July to October 1944.[124] The number of Hungarian Jews originally transported to the Baltic states is likely to have been considerably higher, considering that a certain number of the deportees are bound to have perished from epidemics and deprivations. According to the Jewish eyewitness Abraham Shpungin “over five thousand Hungarian Jewesses, who had been brought to Latvia directly from Auschwitz” were kept in one of the labor camps in Dundaga (Dondangen) in western Latvia that was established in May 1944.[125] Shpungin further writes that “by July 1944, when they [the remaining Dundaga prisoners] left on the march to Libau [Liepāja], there were only about three thousands of [the Hungarian Jewesses] left.”[126] Andrej Angrick and Peter Klein put the number of Hungarian Jewesses in Dundaga at 2,000 but mention this as only one of an unspecified number of subcamps (to KL Kaiserwald in Riga) to where Hungarian Jews were brought.[127]
“It does not deny the facts, but it minimizes them, arguing that Jews use the Holocaust to draw attention away from criticism of Israel. Softcore denial also makes all sorts of false comparisons to the Holocaust.”
Clement Attlee, the new Labor Party leader, spoke of the Munich Agreement as a huge victory for Hitler and an “annihilating defeat for democracy.” Attlee in his speech included the Soviet Union as a democracy. Anthony Eden gave a speech in which he criticized Chamberlain on detailed points, and expressed doubt that Britain would fulfill her promised guarantee to the Czech state. Eden advised the House to regard the current situation as a mere pause before the next crisis. He claimed that the British armaments campaign was proceeding too slowly.[51]
But the main problem is that these discrepancies, unavoidable in the absurd technical fabrication of the “gas chamber” were never raised by any “eye witness,” and they are not mentioned in any document of the concentration camp.
Although the Holocaust is not specifically mentioned, it seems self-evident that the law was drafted in respect to the latter. Although the law has been applied to various criminal offences in respect to “hate” crimes, it is elastic enough to encompass thought crimes. Yet practically speaking, interpretation of the law is largely left to the discretion of the courts.
“When the powder [sic; Zyklon B] was thrown in [to the gas chamber], there were cries of ‘Gas!’, then a great bellowing, and the trapped prisoners [Russian PoWs to be gassed] hurled themselves against both the doors. But the doors held.”
Denied the premier credential in his chosen field for which he had trained for many laborious years, and further feeling a powerful compulsion to resist the pressures being brought to bear on him, Rudolf defiantly extended his scientific inquiries into the forensic bases of the Holocaust legendry, and branched out into publishing activities through which he disseminated his consistently earth-shaking discoveries. The one-man avalanche called Germar Rudolf (no “Dr.” for Herr Rudolf) continued gathering momentum and force until 2005, when he was finally arrested in the United States, taken away from his American wife and child, deported to Germany, and there made to stand trial for his “crimes,” at the conclusion of which he was sentenced to 30 months in jail. Rudolf shares with his thousands of supporters all over the world an eminently justified outrage at what he has suffered for voicing his soundly based opinions, and what measures this treatment may move him to take now that he has regained his freedom fuels the hopes of Holocaust revisionists everywhere. And these hopes run squarely and powerfully against the results that obviously were hoped for by those who launched their vicious campaign against him so long ago.
Achtung: Dieses Video ersetzt Eric Hunts Questioning the Holocaust: Why We Believed, Teil 1, das eine Reihe von Qualitätsproblemen hatte.
Bradley was denounced by many.  Several such derogatory quotes appeared on the back cover of his Confessions of a Holocaust Revisionist  Second Enlarged Edition.  Alan Dershowitz called him a “known anti-Semite and an anti-Black racist.”  Others called him even worse.  Beneath these foul slurs Bradley placed a quote about himself  “a swell guy. Loves everybody.”  Indeed, I never heard him utter a bad word about anyone, never mind their race or ethnicity.
However, Auschwitz was not the totality of the Holocaust. Not by far. Serious revisionists (David Irving, Mark Weber, and hell, I’ll throw my own name in there) don’t dispute the very provable mass murder of Jews (by shooting) during the months following the invasion of Russia. And at a camp like Treblinka, there is a massively strong circumstantial case to be made that the Jews who were sent there were sent there to be killed. It’s circumstantial because very little remains in the way of documentation, and zero remains in the way of physical evidence. But revisionists have never produced an alternate explanation of the fate met by the Jews sent to camps like Treblinka and Sobibor, with empty trains returning. However, accepting that Treblinka was a murder camp but Auschwitz wasn’t means that the Holocaust was not as large in scale or as long in operation as the official history teaches. So taking Auschwitz out of the category of extermination camps is seen as lessening the horror of what, even shorn of Auschwitz, was still a horrific situation.
[11] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, p. 45.
In fact, properly viewing the tragedies of the Holocaust as part of the paroxysms of death of a proud, vigorous, and terrified race shifts the bulk of the blame from them onto the heads of their vengeful, zealous malefactors.
So Hitler’s very real brutality against the Jews had to become “the reason we fought.” Except, those brutalities began in earnest two years after the war started. But why quibble? Russia had captured Auschwitz and Majdanek intact (more or less), and the U.S. had captured Dachau totally intact. So, those camps became representations of a horror for which almost no authentic physical evidence remained. At Auschwitz, an air raid shelter was “remodeled” to look like a gas chamber (as the museum’s curator admitted to me in a 1992 interview). At Majdanek, mattress delousing rooms were misrepresented as being gas chambers for humans (as the museum’s director admitted to me in 1994). And at Dachau, the U.S. Army whipped up a phony gas chamber room to give visiting senators and congressmen in 1945 a dramatic image of “why we had to fight.”
The question of what other agendas are being served by the pursuits also needs to be considered. In 2008 the Jewish former editor of The Age, Michael Gawenda, wrote in an opinion article that the campaign to bring Zentai to justice was ‘as much about recognition of what was done as about delivering justice’. He saw Zentai’s crime as being ‘part of the annihilation of millions of Jews during World War II’.[117] In 2011 there was a report of Zuroff, ‘the world’s chief Nazi hunter’, touching down in Western Australia ‘to educate the community over the importance of never forgetting the Holocaust’ and help ‘bring closure to victims of the Holocaust’. Obviously referring to the Zentai case, he stated: ‘Ninety-nine per cent of the people who committed the crimes of the Holocaust are normative people. They did not commit murder before the Holocaust, before World War II, they did not commit murder after World War II.’[118] In its editorial on 13 June 2005, titled ‘Ellison must send Zentai to Hungary’, The Australian began its argument by stating: ‘The Holocaust is the defining atrocity of the 20th Century’, a rather peculiar assertion.
Raul Hilberg confirmed that he said these words in his testimony at the 1985 Ernst Zündel trial in Toronto.[29] Thus, Hilberg stated that the genocide of European Jewry was not carried out by an order, a plan, a blueprint, a budget nor any agency, but rather through an incredible mind reading by a far-flung bureaucracy.
Considering the above evidence one must conclude that construction of Treblinka II likely did not begin until May 1942 – possibly not until the latter half of that month – and that consequently it is very unlikely that work on the first “gas chamber building” ­– which the Poles employed for its construction “mistook” for a bath house – was finished until June. Nonetheless propaganda about a new “death camp” for Jews at Treblinka was in circulation at least as early as the end of May! In a survey of death-camp rumors Jewish Holocaust historian Ruth Sakowska writes as follows:[26]
In 2000, Crowell would tackle the bomb-shelter thesis once again. Based on additional research, Crowell wrote his highly provocative “Bomb Shelters in Birkenau: A Reappraisal.” In “Bomb Shelters in Birkenau,” Crowell argued that the crematoria at Birkenau had been equipped with gas-tight fixtures as part of a civil-defense measure and that this is the most plausible argument for their existence.
“Butz’s book is replete with the same expressions of traditional antisemitism, philo-Germanism and conspiracy theory as the Holocaust denial pamphlets printed by the most scurrilous neo-Nazi groups.” (p. 141)
Sosnowiec is a city in Upper Silesia, not far from Katowice, which is in turn located not far from Oświęcim, that is, Auschwitz. According to orthodox historiography, the very first transport of Jews sent to Auschwitz to be gassed reportedly originated from Upper Silesia. The Holocaust historians are not unanimous when it comes to the date of this transport. Danuta Czech in her Kalendarium states that the convoy arrived from the Upper Silesian town of Beuthen on 15 February.[110] The sources she gives are not contemporary documents but statements from the SS men Rudolf Höss and Pery Broad that not in any way support the alleged date or origin of the transport.[111] Jean-Claude Pressac on the other hand dates the beginning of large-scale gassings at Auschwitz (in Krematorium I) to January 1942[112], as does Ber Mark, who identifies the first alleged victims as coming from an unspecified location in Upper Silesia.[113] Given the date and reported origin of the transport witnessed by Kruk it nevertheless seems plausible that we are here dealing with an observation of the first Polish Jews sent to be “gassed” at Auschwitz. Holocaust historiography knows of no transports from Sosnowiec to Auschwitz (or any other “extermination camp”) taking place earlier than May 1942,[114] but we should recall here that when it comes to many if not most deportations of Jews from Poland, contemporary documents are lacking and dates and numbers often derive from testimonies.
The United States condemns the conference on the Holocaust convoked by the Iranian regime on Monday in Tehran. While people around the world mark International Human Rights Week and renew the solemn pledges of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, which was drafted in the wake of the atrocities of World War II, the Iranian regime perversely seeks to call the historical fact of those atrocities into question and provide a platform for hatred. The gathering of Holocaust deniers in Tehran is an affront to the entire civilized world, as well as to the traditional Iranian values of tolerance and mutual respect. The United States will continue to support those in Iran and elsewhere who seek to promote human rights and dignity, and will stand with them in their efforts to overcome oppression, injustice, and tyranny.[38]
Mainstream historiography knows of neither French nor Czechoslovakian Jews killed at Ponary. As mentioned in §2.3.3., the only French Jews claimed by the orthodox historians to have reached the occupied eastern territories departed Drancy for Kovno and Tallinn on 15 May 1944. Any French Jews present in Lithuania prior to that date must accordingly have reached that destination via one of the "extermination camps" of Auschwitz-Birkenau or Sobibór.
“About the annihilation of citizens of the USSR, Poland, England, France, Holland, Belgium, Hungary, Greece and other states by the German authorities at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp.“
The defendants did not receive a fair and impartial hearing in the Dachau trial. The use of interrogation methods designed to produce false confessions, lax rules of evidence and procedure, the presumption that the defendants were guilty unless proven innocent, American military judges with little or no legal training, unreliable eyewitness testimony, the nonexistence of an appeals process, and the inability of defense counsel to aggressively cross-examine some of the prosecution witnesses ensured the conviction of all of the defendants in the Dachau trial.
Part Four: “Ordinary Germans’” Survey Evidence
Mass atrocities, the prosecution showed, were seldom committed in clear view of other prisoners, but were perpetrated rather in selected areas of the camp and especially in the basement of the bunker. Testimony of the sort [prosecution witness] Marsalek gave, though not in conformity with commonly applied rules of evidence, was therefore the best the court could hope for. As guidelines set out for the courts at Dachau made clear, accepting such evidence was well within the purview of military judges.[13]
The mere fact that the dimensions, capacities and the number of the Sobibor “gas chambers” cannot be resolved is consistent with the Holocaust revisionist hypothesis that these “murder devices” never existed, and what these “eyewitnesses” are claiming is false. Once again, at the very least this is one more reason for the hardcore Holocaust believer to doubt the traditional Sobibor extermination story.
One of the earliest English language revisionist books that addressed the Holocaust story was The Myth of the Six Million. This title originally appeared in 1969. Its author was identified simply as "anonymous."[6] Today it is known that this book was written by David L. Hoggan, an academic who taught at the University of California at Berkeley, San Francisco State College and several other schools of higher learning.[7] The Noontide Press published Hoggan's study anonymously purportedly to avoid academic retribution against Hoggan.[8]
Grubach proceeded to argue that the official extermination story of Sobibor is utilised as ‘a non-scientific axiom, because it cannot be falsified. It is just assumed to be true – just like a religious dogma. He explained, also, that the reason that German soldiers ‘confessed’ to ‘Nazi gas chamber’ crimes after the war was to save their skins or mitigate punishment for themselves and their families. ‘The “Nazi extermination camp” mythology was declared “historical truth” at the Nuremberg trials, and it was then used as an ideological cornerstone for the Allied-installed governments in post-war Germany…..From a legal standpoint they [the accused German soldiers] had no choice but to give credence to this legend….. It was out of the question for them to contest this in court, so they simply built their defence strategies accordingly.’ Grubach quotes the revisionist German judge, Dr Wilhelm Stäglich, and mainstream historians Browning and Ian Kershaw, who all testified to this need of the soldiers to lie.
Despite its consistent rejection by everyone with expertise in gassing, the EZS argument remained the prosecution’s favorite, and went on making the rounds with holocaust historians. For example, in a well-known anthology on the alleged National Socialist gassings, the size of the Zyklon deliveries to Majdanek was held to be proof that they were intended for homicidal use.[109] While the EZS argument was repudiated by Jean-Claude Pressac,[110] it was resurrected by Robert Jan van Pelt in connection with the Irving-Lipstadt trial.[111] Van Pelt’s shoddy arguments need not concern us beyond a few brief remarks.[112]
Apparently, suffering, fear, and the desperate desire to save one’s homeland from invasion do not impart Greatness to just any generation so engaged. Rather, it would seem, in Brokaw’s words, to be a matter of Doing the Right Thing(s). Scourging the cities, treasures, homes, and lives of several great civilizations, from Tokyo to Berlin, even while introducing the world to the horrendous novelty of nuclear holocaust. Helping, indispensably, to erect the West’s next great bogeyman, Communism, as the hegemon over eastern and central Europe, and shortly thereafter, over China. Beclouding the world with a penumbra of ICBM-borne thermonuclear devastation in Cold War during which most of us have spent our entire, fear-wracked lives. And even, by 1948, enabling the forcible insertion into the ever-volatile Middle East a new colony of dispossessed Europeans who, after clearing for themselves a suitable domain in several religions’ Holy Lands, stole the means to project nuclear terror from yet another sore on a globe already afflicted with many such metastasizing tumors.
It had much to say about the alleged Trawniki training camp ID card with Demjanjuk’s name on it. On 18th May 1988 it reported Edward Nishnic, son-in-law of Demjanjuk, as documenting faked Soviet evidence against his father-in-law. ‘He has a copy of an article from a Soviet magazine which showed an ID card, made out in John Demjanjuk’s name, but with the photograph of another person on it.’
Undated. Peter Kleist, a German nationalist of Russophile bent who during the war had served in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, publishes the book Auch du warst dabei! (You too were there!) in which he devotes a subchapter to “The Final Solution”.[5] Kleist disputes neither Einsatzgruppen mass shootings of Jews (while remarking that the Soviet partisans’ way of fighting “deliberately erased any distinction between fighting troops and civilians”) nor the existence of homicidal gas chambers (although he notes that Wehrmacht troops stationed in Lublin remained unaware of the mass gassings in Majdanek, and that “almost no information on these events reached Germany”). He states, on the other hand, that the victim figures claimed for the camps are grossly exaggerated, and that the Six Million figure cannot possibly be correct. According to Kleist’s calculations, the total number of perished Jews could at most have amounted to 1,277,212.
Those trials proved beyond any doubt that revisionism was something more than a silly conspiracy theory. Survivors were cross-examined for the first time, as well as the “Holocaust Pope” himself, Raul Hilberg. The pressure put on them by the defense attorney by a fusillade of precise questions was so much that both refused to appear for the second trial. Unsurprisingly, Terry neglects to mention any of this.
This pattern clearly emerges in the case of the Sachsenhausen report. When Vyshinksy desired changes in the text, he sometimes contented himself with marginal notes, but in most cases he may have summoned ESC secretary Bogoyavlensky to notify him of his wishes. The reasons which motivated the substantial modifications of the contents of the reports remain undocumented. The ESC used conspiratorial methods; delicate topics were in all likelihood discussed orally, and it is quite probable that even among themselves the members of the commission rarely used plain language.
Most of the Jews deported from the Białystok District, however, were sent to Treblinka, where they were allegedly gassed en masse. Christian Gerlach points out that, although the (alleged) decision to exterminate the Jews in the Białystok District is generally asserted by orthodox Holocaust historians to have been made by the RSHA under the leadership of Eichmann, there is an indication of an underlying coordination with certain other authorities: the (alleged) extermination of the Jews of Volhynia-Podolia and Polesie in Reich Commissariate Ukraine more or less ended with the evacuation of the Pinsk ghetto (in Polesie) on November 1, 1942, whereas the liquidation of the ghettos in the Białystok District commenced on the very following day, November 2, 1942.
“One day a group of German officers arrived in the camp and began making a special selection of prisoners. We were given a medical examination and I was one among some six hundred who were loaded onto trucks and hauled away. As usual, we had no idea where we were going. One thing I did know: we were all sick. Some of us were skeletons, others had an unhealthy bloated appearance, but all were undernourished and in rags. We were a sad sight. We were all sure that we were on the way to be exterminated at last. What else were we good for? We said our goodbyes to each other and waited for the ordeal to be over. Just let this death sentence be quick, I prayed. During this trip, we talked about what we had done before the war, where we had lived, about our families and our lives before we had been forced into concentration camps. Each person talking in their own language, with everyone’s words intermingling. We all held hands and there was much sobbing. Suddenly the long line of trucks came to an abrupt halt. I tried to peek under the canvas to see where our journey had ended.” (p. 130)
Orthodox historiography has it that, from January 1942 onward, numerous Jews from the Łódź (Litzmannstadt) Ghetto were sent, not to work, but to be killed in the Chełmno “extermination camp”. According to the “Chronicle of the Łódź Ghetto”, 10,003 Łódź Jews were sent to their deaths in January and 7,025 in February.[122] In contemporary German documents the Jews evacuated from the ghetto are referred to as “resettled” (ausgesiedelt), and the diary entry of Kruk clearly shows that this resettlement was real and not a camouflage for mass killings. This diary entry thus constitutes a strong confirmation of the transit camp hypothesis. It is possible that the two Łódź Jews which Kruk received the information from only had knowledge of the number of Jews deported in January, considering the striking match between the figures (“about 10,000” and 10,003). The fact that the two young men had wandered for only a week from their work place to reach Vilna indicates that at least part of the Łódź Jews were sent to Lithuania or possibly to neighboring Belarus.[123]
“Nearly all [of the 6,589 Jews estimated to have remained in the city] were killed, but even after checking more than a dozen sources, we have direct evidence for the death of only 3,534. For the remaining 3000+ people, we will have to use an indirect method: given a complete list of Holocaust survivors, we would be able to infer that anyone not on this list had perished.
“An American soldier stands outside of THE gas chamber in Dachau” [30]
German children experienced the worst conditions in the detention centers. Přemsyl Pitter, a social worker from Prague, quickly found as he visited the Czechoslovak detention centers that the overwhelming majority of those who needed his aid were ethnic Germans. At a makeshift internment camp in Prague, Pitter discovered at the end of July 1945 “a hell of which passers-by hadn’t the faintest notion.” More than a thousand Germans, the great majority women and children, were “crowded together in an indescribable tangle. As we brought emaciated and apathetic children out and laid them on the grass, I believed that few would survive. Our physician, Dr. E. Vogl, himself a Jew who had gone through the hell of Auschwitz and Mauthausen, almost wept when he saw these little bodies. ‘And here we Czechs have done this in two and a half months!’ he exclaimed.” Red Cross officials found that the conditions at other Prague camps were no better.[32]
The post-war autobiography by Rudolf Höss, written while in Polish custody awaiting his execution, contains little information about the doors of this alleged gas chamber, only that they must have been very sturdy, because:[8]
Rassinier would later become even more certain about the falsity of the gas-chamber claims. As a result of his studies, he made the following conclusion in The Real Eichmann Trial, "There never were any gas chambers, nor any exterminations by that method at Auschwitz-Birkenau."[12]
The fact that Ferencz threatened and humiliated his witness and reported as much to his superior officer indicates that he operated in a culture where such illegal methods were acceptable.[9] Any Harvard-law graduate knows that such evidence is not admissible in a legitimate court of law.
Germany, October 1938. It's almost kick-off time for the Holocaust, which most of its fans date from the night of November 9, the infamous Kristallnacht "national pogrom" against Jewish synagogues, shops, and some homes. But less well known among devotees of the lore of Kristallnacht is the chain of events that was initiated by … Poland.
In closing, I want to address why this book is so important and timely. To put it bluntly, we needed a valuable addition to the revisionist literature. With Germar Rudolf out of commission, book-length revisionism has lost its most energetic contributor. It is heartening to see Theses and Dissertations Press alive and well, and we should commend them for continuing to bring us the kind of vital scholarship that keeps historical revisionism dynamic and alive. Along with the recent appearance of Inconvenient History, I'm hopeful that Dalton's new volume signals a reawakening of serious revisionist work. After all, the book is a very potent effort at setting the record straight about revisionist claims, and it's done in such a reasonable, straightforward way that you could give the book to your mom without apology. It is the kind of book that resists drowning its reader in statistics, opting instead for a concise, memorable, camp-by-camp analysis of what Dalton calls "the great debate." In Debating the Holocaust, the revisionist community now has the closest thing yet to an encyclopedic handbook of revisionist arguments. This is the work's most remarkable achievement, and I hope it will only mark the very beginning of Thomas Dalton's promising new career in the fight for historical truth.
It is odd that Rajchman here calls the old gas chambers “the smaller ones” and the new ones “the larger gas chambers”, whereas the capacities ascribed to them clearly point to the old chambers being of larger size than the new ones. It is possible that either Rajchman himself or the translator is confusing the size of the respective buildings with the size of the chambers (a result of the word “gas chamber” often being used as synonymous with “gas chamber building). Since the new building supposedly contained ten chambers instead of three, it was of course the larger of the two buildings.
The exact identity of the engine is further complicated by the testimony of SS man Erich Bauer, an alleged “operator of the gas chambers” who was nicknamed “the Gasmeister.” He identified the engine in question as follows: “In my opinion it was a petrol engine, a big engine. I think a Renault.” Renault is a French built engine, and not Russian as claimed by Fuchs.[22]
Hilberg says no crematoria were ever installed. Tenenbaum “established” that the Germans built a “modern stench-free crematorium.” The “official truth” about Sobibor has stuck with Hilberg’s versions of events. No crematoria were ever installed at Sobibor, as the bodies were burned in mass graves—rendering Tenenbaum’s “established fact” that the Germans built “stench-free crematoria” at Sobibor as untrue.
As for the eyewitness evidence, even the Lipstadt-Penguin team had to concede that it was not exactly sound. “The Defendants recognise that not all of the evidence which I have sought to summarise above is altogether reliable," wrote Judge Gray. "This applies with particular force to the evidence of the eye-witnesses.” He found that "witnesses may have repeated and even embellished the (invented) accounts of other witnesses with the consequence that a corpus of false testimony is built up." Nevertheless, he concluded that the "cumulative effect of the documentary evidence for the genocidal operation of the gas chambers at Auschwitz is considerable." How a stream of evidence heavily contaminated by "false testimony" leads an unprejudiced mind to belief rather than skepticism was left rather unclear by the judge.
In April 2007, after six years of discussion and negotiations, the European Union approved criminal measures against “Holocaust denial.” Representatives from the 27-nation bloc agreed to impose jail sentences upon those who deny or trivialize the Holocaust.
Further, van Pelt assumes that the Zyklon supply to camps other than Auschwitz, Neuengamme for example, was adequate on a per-prisoner basis, while in reality Neuengamme prisoners complained that delousing was scarcely ever done, and blamed the camp administration for this omission, which was the result of a shortage of Zyklon.[117] Moreover, citing the Nuremberg document NI-9912 (of little direct relevance to Auschwitz), van Pelt assumes that the Auschwitz delousing chambers would have used a concentration of 8 grams per cubic meter. The concentration normally recommended by TESTA, however, was 10 grams per cubic meter (Type ‘D’). Even worse, van Pelt assumes a concentration of 5-8 grams per cubic meter for the delousing of barracks. TESTA’s recommendation for the gassing of barracks was 15 grams per cubic meter (Type ‘E’).[118] Correcting this last figure alone suffices to overturn van Pelt’s analysis.
As psychologist Lynn pointed out, Diamond ignored or dismissed the scientific evidence of intelligence testing, which suggests that—for genetic and/or non-genetic reasons—New Guineans as a whole are less intelligent than Europeans.[58]
Belzec, Sobibor, Treblinka. Holocaust Denial and Operation Reinhard: A Critique of the Falsehoods of Mattogno, Graf and Kues, by Jonathan Harrison, Roberto Muehlenkamp, Jason Myers, Sergey Romanov, and Nicholas Terry, Holocaust Controversies; 2011, 570 pp.
… an eyewitness account of some of the German extermination camps. Document PS-1553-RF-350 was already available at the Nuremberg trials against the main war criminals. It was admitted as evidence in the so-called Doctors’ Trial in January 1947 and played a role in the first German poison-gas trial in January 1949. It is now officially published for the first time in the second issue of the Vierteljahreshefte für Zeitgeschichte (Contemporary History Quarterly) in 1953. It was treated there as a historical document, dissected and provided with explanatory notes. A careful, critical examination by the guarantor has indeed revealed its truthfulness beyond all doubt.”
The testimony of Shalayev is no less problematic. He claimed that the new gas-chamber building at Treblinka was equipped with five gas chambers, rather than the ten which has been generally accepted. He also described a curious procedure by which gassing in the old gas-chamber building proceeded one chamber at a time – a feature that contradicts the accounts of other witnesses. Finally, Leleko,[5] Shalayev,[6] and Shevchenko,[7] all claimed that the new gas chambers were built in 1943 (Shevchenko specifying March 1943), while the standard literature claims that they came under construction in late August or early September of 1942, and went into action that October or November. The bloggers, always superficial in their handling of witness testimony, make no attempts to reconcile any of these contradictions.
In November 1942, the Soviet Government founded the “Extraordinary State Commission,” an organization the size of a small Soviet ministry charged with investigating German war crimes. Wherever the Red Army had reconquered an area formerly under German control, local commissions were formed which subsequently questioned tens of thousands of local residents and produced reports based on their testimony. The same procedure was followed with regard to the former German concentration camps. The reports drafted by the local investigative commissions about the recently captured camps were directly forwarded to ESC headquarters in Moscow where they were usually edited and signed by one or several prominent ESC members before being published in the Soviet Press, such acquiring the status of official documents.
Let me give one more example to make even the most hardcore anti-fascist agree that concepts like “disturbing the public peace” belong in the dustbin of history: During the Third Reich the German Catholic priest Rubert Mayer was publicly indicted because with his sermons he had “repeatedly made public, inciting statements” and because he had discussed matters of the state “in a way capable of endangering public peace.”[22] He was subsequently imprisoned at Sachsenhausen concentration camp for seven months. Compare this with the multi-year prison terms revisionists get nowadays in “democratic” Germany!
The related cost estimate (Kostenanschlag) of June 6, 1943, (Document 26)[45] reports the same technical data, but it further clarifies that “das Schaufelrad, welches fliegend auf Motorwellenstumpf aufgebaut wird” [“the blower wheel was connected directly onto the motor shaft”]. In other words, this formula characterizes the direct coupling of the motor shaft and the blower wheel, as shown in Document 27, taken from the drawing of the Topf Company D 57999 of November 30, 1940.[46] The detail shows the project of the aspiration device of Crematorium I of Auschwitz: M is the motor directly coupled through the motor shaft MW to the air-blower G; S is the chimney.
Since 2000 at the latest, the former Polish Auschwitz inmate Michał Kula has been quoted by mainstream Holocaust historians as the key witness describing how exactly Zyklon B was introduced in the homicidal gas chambers claimed to have existed in Crematoria II and III located in the Auschwitz-Birkenau Camp. This paper analyzes several of Kula’s postwar statements in this regard in order to accurately recreate what Kula described, to assess whether his claims are even technically feasible, and whether Kula’s statements about other aspects are historically accurate. It is demonstrated that Kula’s claims are untrue in many regards, that he has changed his story repeatedly, and that his claims are technically nonsensical.
The Holocaust Hugh Gibson revised is not the National Socialist expulsion of Jews from German society that began as early as 1933. The object of his revision began around 1919, upon the resurrection of a sovereign Poland in Central Europe in the aftermath of World War I.
The survival of young children at Auschwitz-Birkenau is not surprising since Auschwitz-Birkenau served as a transit camp for detainees unfit for work. This is proven by a note dated July 21, 1942, concerning a telephone conversation that took place the day before. SS Hauptsturmführer Theodor Dannecker wrote:[18]
From these, two linked claims were established. The first was that the Nazis were generally brutal towards all civilians within their area of occupation. Such claims are common when one country occupies another. In fact, historically, there are few occupations where such claims have not been made (Germany’s ‘occupation’ of Austria being one). The second was that Jews in that area were singled out for treatment even more brutal than everybody else. In this way, the skeleton of the Jewish Holocaust was put together.
David Irving could claim that Reuter had used a code language and that “cross the border and never return to the General Gouvernement” was a code expression for “will be killed at Belzec”, but there is no objective evidence to support such a position.
Shmuel Krakowski, archives director of Israel’s Yad Vashem Holocaust center, confirmed in 1986 that more than half of the testimonies of Jewish survivors on file there are unreliable. Krakowski said that many survivors, wanting to be a part of history, may have let their imaginations run away from them. He stated that many of the testimonies on file at Yad Vashem were later proved to be inaccurate when locations and dates could not pass an expert historian’s appraisal. Krakowski commented on the Jewish survivor testimony, “Many were never in the places where they claimed to have witnessed atrocities, while others relied on second-hand information given them by friends or passing strangers.”[23]
When the typhus epidemic struck in the spring of 1942, the only cremation facility operational at Auschwitz was the old crematorium with its three double-muffle furnaces. Each muffle could cremate a normal corpse on average within roughly an hour, meaning that, for a 20-hour workday, this facility could cremate a theoretical maximum of (6×20=) some 120 corpses.[15] In July 1942, the death rate exceeded 4,000, or 130 corpses per day on average. But already the load put on that facility in the months prior to July led to such massive strain that some of the refractory lining of the flues had to be replaced in mid-May 1942; a few weeks later, it was noticed that the chimney was deteriorating to such a degree that it was decided to tear it down entirely and rebuild it. That work was done between July 12 and August 8, 1942. During these almost four weeks, the crematorium was by necessity out of operation, meaning that, when the typhus epidemic approached its cataclysmic peak, Auschwitz had no cremation capacity at all.[16] After Crematorium I went back into operation in mid-August, the death rate was more than twice the number of theoretically possible cremations. What happened to all these corpses that could not be burned? Although the situation improved considerably in November and December, things got out of hand again in January 1943, with no additional cremation capacity ready to help out until mid-March of that year (when Crematorium II went operational briefly, was overloaded and was shut down again a few weeks later for major repairs…). At any rate, witnesses (among them Höss) state that these “excess corpses” were buried in mass graves but later exhumed and burned on pyres, because the corpses were lying in the groundwater threatening to poison the drinking-water supply of the entire region. Considering all the circumstances, this part of the witnesses’ story is most likely true.
As seen above, Rajchman clearly implies in his memoirs that the air was pumped out of the gas chambers and then, usually, replaced with engine exhaust gas.[19] On October 12, 1945, Rajchman (as Henryk Reichman) testified as follows:
The Eichmann Trial tells another story regarding alleged corpse disposal on the part of the “German murderers.” Lipstadt refers to the work of Rachel Auerbach, the Holocaust researcher associated with Yad Vashem, who aided Prosecutor Hausner. During the Second World War, Auerbach’s interviews with escapees from Treblinka concentration camp alerted the world to the “Nazi mass murders” that were allegedly taking place (p. 52). Lipstadt writes about Auerbach’s “discoveries”: “Long before Eichmann’s capture, Auerbach had conducted research on Operation 1005, the large-scale secret campaign to destroy evidence of the Final Solution by digging up the mass graves, pulverizing the bodies in specially adapted cement-mixer apparatuses, and erasing all traces of the atrocities. She also found two people who had participated as slave laborers in this effort (p. 53).”
As opposed to this enumeration, Kranz is satisfied with two gas chambers (chambers I and III of those mentioned by the Polish-Soviet commission); he writes:
The second daunting question turns on an even more-perilous and potentially highly damaging issue: why were there no “Holocaust survivors” on the witness stand? Here David Hare, the film’s scriptwriter, really goofs and apparently no one on the production team caught his blunder, though many in the audience will spot it. In the movie, Lipstadt is outraged that her lawyers will not call on “survivors” to testify. The head of her defense team, Anthony Julius, has a response. (Julius is rendered as an expressionless, one-dimensional, and in many respects unsympathetic character, played deadpan by actor Andrew Scott, known for roles as the villainous Moriarity in the BBC Sherlock TV series, and the traitorous head of the British Secret Service in the 007 film, Spectre). We first meet Julius while he is holding a copy of the book he authored which, we see from the cover, traduces the reputation of the esteemed Christian poet T.S. Eliot. Julius informs Prof. Lipstadt that he will not call the “survivors” because he wants to spare them the disrespect which Irving (who acted as his own attorney), would demonstrate toward them in cross-examination.
The scene described is clearly false, because it shows the supposed gas chamber on the ground floor, in direct communication with the oven rooms. The area is well-known to have been located in the cellar (Kellergeschoss) of the crematorium, and Venezia himself speaks of the freight elevator used to transport the bodies from the supposed gas chamber to the oven rooms[178].
Two days later, on 17 November, Maximilian Grabner, head of the Auschwitz Political Section sent the following letter to the Schutzhaftlagerführer (E) of the camp (Karl Fritzsch):
A credible eyewitness who states that genocide did not take place at Birkenau is the Austrian-born Canadian Maria Van Herwaarden, who was interned at Birkenau from December 2, 1942 to January 1945. Van Herwaarden testified at the 1988 Ernst Zündel trial that she saw nothing at Birkenau that resembled mass murder. The Jewish prisoners she saw at Birkenau were not treated differently from the other prisoners. She also testified that many of the inmates at Birkenau died of diseases, and some inmates committed suicide.[19]
In fact, our experts cannot even clearly answer the simpler question: How many Jews were in the Warsaw ghetto? Friedman (1954: 79) says 420,000 to 500,000. Corni (2003: 195) says 400,000. Dean (2010: 342) says “some 450,000.” Longerich (2010: 167) says 410,000 to 590,000! If we don’t know how many people we have to start with, we certainly can’t answer the follow-on questions regarding deaths and deportations. And if we can’t answer those questions, well, our entire picture of the Holocaust is up in the air.
American gas chamber built according to the technique developed in the 1930s and '40s. Faurisson examined it in September 1979 at Baltimore penitentiary.
During his work on Hitler’s War, David Irving studied a significant number of German war-time documents. With growing amazement he realized that none of these countless documents proved that Hitler had ordered the extermination of the Jews. More amazing was the fact that the documents contained no evidence that Hitler was even aware of a plan to exterminate Europe’s Jews.
”The Extraordinary State Commission requests you to decide that all materials of the preliminary investigation concerning the crimes of the German-Fascist Invaders at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp be handed over to the Pan-Soviet Public Prosecutor’s Office to be used in the forthcoming trial of the German Fascist criminals [who had been stationed] at Sachsenhausen concentration camp.“
In August 1939, Hitler let it be known to his close associates that he approved any measure which could be seen as delivering incurable patients from pain and suffering. Probably in the late autumn or winter of 1939, Hitler backdated a document to Sept. 1, 1939, that authorized the euthanasia program. The authorization states:[1]
The central problem for both Ristic and Goldman, however, is that their back-and-forth arguments promise to expose the far more consequential problems of the main Holocaust camps. In fact, Ristic does the nasty work for us. He writes, “we could ask a question as to whether it is possible to deny, in the same way, the number of 1,200,000 to 1,500,000 killed in Auschwitz since there is no forensic evidence for that claim either?” Touché, Mr. Ristic! The irony is that he is entirely correct, of course. No evidence (or scarcely any) for Auschwitz; none for Treblinka; none for Belzec—the same old story.
With scrutiny from Frick, amidst allegations of mistreatment in the concentration camps, Himmler lectured the Gestapo in October 1934 that with their powers of protective custody they should ensure that all cases are handled speedily and efficiently, with courtesy, and that no loyal citizen should fear arrest.25 In 1935 the Gestapo was given jurisdiction over the concentration camps, although they continued to be run by the SS.
But is this setup really believable? Given a room height of 2.6 m, the shower heads would have been placed some 2.3–2.4 m above the floor – clearly within reach of the taller of the alleged victims, as well as shorter ones lifted up by or standing on others. According to the verdict from the Treblinka trial, each of the three chambers in the old gas chamber building could hold 200-350 victims, i.e. a capacity 600–1,050 victims per gassing.[10] Considering that during the first month of the camp's operation some 6–8,000 Jews were sent daily to the camp from the Warsaw ghetto,[11] this would mean that some 6–14 gassings would have to be carried out daily. Considering the design usually employed for the shower installations in the German concentration camps,[12] it seems inevitable that the “fake” piping and shower heads would have been damaged by panicking, desperate victims on a daily basis – if lethal exhaust gas had been indeed been streaming out from these showers, that is. The notion that it would have been feasible to feed the gas into the chambers using a fake shower installation is therefore, at closer glance, absurd. Another hint that the piping, if indeed used for the “bath house” described by Sulkowski et al (something for which we have no conclusive proof but which seems likely in the absence of other known installations at the camp that would have utilized such piping) formed part of an actual shower installation is the fact that Eberl together with the piping ordered “waterproof lighting fixtures with sockets” (emphasis added).
Karski (again, following Jansson and other reporters) went to Belzec, and there found no evidence of an extermination camp, but rather, a scene that closely fitted that of a transit camp.
All of the walls here sampled (except for Rudolf’s Samples #19a&b as mentioned above) were stained blue to some degree. Clearly, the hydrogen cyanide used on a regular basis in these delousing chambers has penetrated right through the walls, being 45% lower on the outside than on the inside forty years later.
One of Lipstadt’s favorite expressions is that there are “reams” of documents which allegedly refute what revisionists claim (p. 196). As mentioned before, she relies in this regard entirely on Pressac’s 1989 book on Auschwitz,25 as she admits on page 255.
This issue of Inconvenient History will consider several lesser known aspects of the Second World War including Veronica Clark’s examination of diversity within Hitler’s military and Joseph Bishop’s look at the Einsatzgruppen in the ever-evolving Holocaust story. Mark Turley takes a close look at the concept of “genocide” and its use during the Nuremberg Trials. Thomas Kues presents the second installment of his “Chronicle of Holocaust Revisionism” examining the years 1950 to 1955.
How did we get here and based on recent trends and events, where are we headed? The "igniting spark" for the movement to criminalize revisionism is the March 1982 report published by the Institute of Jewish Affairs in association with the World Jewish Congress that called for the pan-European criminalization of revisionism.[6] While this article declared, "denial or the falsification of the facts of the Holocaust can already be prosecuted under the laws of incitement to racial hatred" the authors still pleaded for the introduction of "special legal provisions against the denial of the Holocaust."[7] Today, sadly, it may be said that nearly every proposal in the report has either been successfully enacted or superseded by even more stringent anti-revisionist legislation.[8]
If you should have any interest in my evidence I will gladly hold myself at your disposal, as the practices of the firms occupying themselves in the east with de-contamination are known to me from personal experience.
Edwin Black, whose Jewish Polish parents both survived the so-called Holocaust,[31] fails to document in his book a German program of genocide against European Jewry. Like most other Holocaust historians, Black merely assumes the “Holocaust” happened without documenting its existence.
Famed Nazi-hunter Simon Wiesenthal also reported a trip to a German camp hospital in his book The Murderers Among Us. Wiesenthal wrote that he tried to commit suicide by cutting his wrists while incarcerated by the Germans. Instead of letting him die, the Germans sent him to the hospital where they nursed him back to health.[19] If the Germans were intent on committing genocide against European Jewry, why would they make the effort to send both Wiesel and Wiesenthal to the hospital to restore their health?
But Lipstadt et al. have made matters worse for themselves by continuing to kvetch and by trying to demonstrate that Trump was wrong. In order to explain why Trump was supposedly wrong, certain points about the Holocaust had to be clarified. But the Holocaust legend has survived largely by remaining unclear. The more defined the Holocaust becomes, the easier it is to criticize.
I highly recommend Hoffman’s book, because it offers an honest and balanced account of the tragedy of Ernst Zündel. Hoffman faults Zündel for several things, including his stubbornly outspoken Hitlerism, while nevertheless portraying Zündel as a generous, courageous, and highly talented leader. Also useful about the Great Holocaust Trial are the new appendices, which include essays by Hoffman, Fred Leuchter, and Zündel himself. All in all, Hoffman’s book is a valuable contribution to a distinct and important kind of revisionism—a highly personal literature by revisionists about revisionists—that puts a human face on a community that has for too long suffered under the shameless squawking of Commissarettes like Sabina Citron.
Greetings to all. Remember Marcel Nadjari? He was a Greek Jew deported to Auschwitz in April 1944 where he supposedly worked in the Sonderkommando of Crematorium III. After the evacuation of the camp, he was sent to Mauthausen, then Melk, then Gusen II, then back to Mauthausen before liberation. In 1951, he moved to New York where he died in 1971 at age 54.
The five-hundred-thousand-strong Armenian community in France had pressed for the bill. Patrick Devedijian, an Armenian politician in France, appealed to the “Holocaust” to justify the imposition of the law, remarking, “Imagine for a second that Germany today denied the Holocaust. It is totally unacceptable.”[25]
In 1958, Louis Marschalko published the book The World Conquerors. He argues that, upon takeover by the Americans, captive Germans “were ordered subsequently to build various additional buildings with the greatest possible speed” (p. 155). They constructed “blood-pits” and a “hanging tree,” and destroyed gardens and flowerbeds that might detract from the ‘death camp’ image. Marschalko adds, “The shower-baths, dressing rooms, and reception halls had to be rebuilt so that they should appear like gas-chambers” (p. 156).
Revisionists find themselves in an increasingly hostile environment. The news media has misrepresented their viewpoints and taken entirely to the use of the derogatory and misleading term "Holocaust deniers" to identify those who try to bring the Holocaust story into accord with the facts. Holocaust revisionists have been denounced by world leaders including: Tony Blair, Prime Minister of Britain; Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany; Ehud Olmert, Prime Minister of Israel; George Bush, President of the United States and even Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary General.[29]
Also in 1983, Simone Veil declared that “conclusive evidence” of the reality of the gas chambers could not be provided because “everyone knows that the Nazis destroyed the gas chambers” and “systematically did away with all the witnesses” (France-Soir Magazine, May 7, 1983, p. 47); but then, what value resides in the gas chambers shown to tourists, and what are the testimonies of the witnesses who speak or write about them worth?
But there is more: According to information provided by “a Polish woman with the code name Wanda,” "98% of all arrivals at Auschwitz were gassed.”[17] Auschwitz was a forced-labor camp suffering from a severe shortage of manpower, as the officials at Bletchley Park well knew. Why should Cavendish-Bentinck lend the slightest credence to the allegation that 98% of all inmates were gassed immediately after their arrival?
Since the first draft was ready by 7 May, we may assume that Bock and his comrades had set to work in the last days of April.[7] Their “office” was probably Barrack 4 which the communist prisoners had converted into a “community block.”[8] Whether the Soviet investigators were already present in the camp at this early date, and to what extent they influenced this first draft, remains unknown. At the behest of the Moscow-based ESC, a Soviet investigative commission became active at Sachsenhausen on 12 May and stayed there until the end of June. The leader of the commission, Lt. Colonel Sharitch, undoubtedly learned of the existence of the draft at once. A great deal of circumstantial evidence suggests that the Soviets demanded numerous changes and additions until the final version was officially handed over to the Commission, which included the “Prisoner’s Report” in its own documentation about the camp.
On 7 July Eberl wrote again to the commissar, notifying him that the camp would be ready for operation on 11 July and ordering additional items for the camp.[7] Most of these were related to lighting but among them were also “3 intake strainers [Saugkörbe] for wells with check valves [Rückschlagventil] 1 1/2 inch”. From testimonial evidence we know that a Polish construction worker named Grzegorz Wozniak worked on coordinating the piping and trenching during the camp’s construction phase.[8]
Remark: The Number One historian of the Jewish genocide, at a certain point, thus found himself so helpless that he suddenly proceeded to disown his first version and to explain a gigantic undertaking of collective murder as if it had all been carried out through something like the workings of the Holy Spirit. In effect, since then he has evoked a “meeting of minds” within a bureaucracy, terming this meeting “incredible”. If it is “incredible” or unbelievable, why then should it be believed? Must one believe the unbelievable? He also brings up “mind reading” and states it was performed by “consensus”, but this is a matter of pure intellectual speculation grounded in a belief in the supernatural. How can one believe in such a phenomenon, particularly within a vast bureaucratic structure and, still more particularly, within the bureaucracy of the Third Reich? It is worth noting that on R. Hilberg’s example the other official historians set about, in the 1980s and 1990s, abandoning history and lapsed into metaphysics and jargon. They questioned themselves on the point of whether one should be “intentionalist” or “functionalist”: must it be supposed that the extermination of the Jews occurred subsequent to an “intent” (not yet proved) and in line with a concerted plan (not yet found), or instead had that extermination happened all by itself, spontaneously and through improvisation, without there being any formal intent and with no plan? This type of woolly controversy attests to the disarray of historians who, unable to provide evidence and real documents to back their case, are thus reduced to theorising in the void. At bottom, those on one side, the “intentionalists”, tell us: “There were necessarily an intent and a plan, which we haven’t yet found but which we shall perhaps indeed discover one day”, whereas the others affirm: “There is no need to go looking for evidence of an intent and a plan, for everything was able to occur without intent, without plan and without leaving any traces; such traces are not to be found because they have never existed.”
The first paper included here, “Come aumentare il numero dei morti nell'olocausto/How to Increase the Number of Holocaust Deaths,” is a merger of two olodogma blog posts, and starts with Dr. Viola’s case and briefly verifies his claim about how easy it is to submit any data, true or false, to Yad Vashem.
In an article in which Irving was nonsensically described as ‘a historian who denied the Holocaust ever happened’[24], the BBC confirmed that hundreds of protestors blocked the entrance to the Union building and at one point fifty gained entry and prevented whatever debate was taking place from continuing.[25] Comments from some of the protestors indicated the reasons for their anger. They chanted ‘Go home Nazi scum!’ and ‘BNP – off our streets!’ ‘This has nothing to do with free speech,’ said one, bizarrely, ‘it’s about giving credibility to fascists, making them appear to be part of the mainstream.’ For such illogic to work, we would need to infer that those responsible for organizing the chamber debates at the Oxford Union have some kind of pro-fascist agenda.
The author never states explicitly that he was present for any, much less all, of the 73 consecutive days of the proceeding, but it seems very clear that he was. He wanted, in fact, to be called as a witness to testify to the many things he knew and had seen concerning the acts of the accused, but out of all the dozens like him, less than twelve witnesses were called, each of these quite evidently carefully vetted, scripted, and rehearsed, a circumstance very much in evidence and much noted by Joseph Halow in his moving book, Innocent at Dachau.
So the recent evidence contradicts a long established Stalinist legend, and certainly explains Hitler's motivation: his attack on the Soviet Union was a preemptive strike." (p.82)
The late Joseph Bellinger had intended the current article to be a chapter in a book that remained unpublished at the time of his death, The Prohibition of “Holocaust Denial.” Part One was published in the last issue of Inconvenient History. — Ed.
This complex machinery sure looked like it would be something we’d expect in German-designed death chambers. But because this equipment could NOT be used to introduce Zyklon-B fumes into the chamber, today we are told the Germans instead just dumped the pesticide pellets onto the room’s floor through these vents in the outside wall. This is quite odd, because the disinfestation chambers right down the hall actually did have advanced specially designed mechanisms to properly heat and circulate cyanide gas from the Zyklon B pesticide pellets.
The court also refused Irving’s request to subpoena Franciszek Piper as a witness for the defense. At the time of the trial, Piper was serving as the director of the Auschwitz State Museum in Poland, and Irving’s attorneys intended to ask Piper, under oath, to confirm that he had “confided to Freiburg historian Prof. Martin that the Auschwitz “gas chamber” shown to tourists was actually a phony reconstruction.”
Even if the powdered bone fragments from each corpse weighed only 1.41 lbs, that is literally about 1,000 tons of crushed bone poured into the River Vistula. (If we use the more realistic figure of 4 lbs. per corpse, multiplied by the current official Auschwitz-Birkenau death toll of about 1.1 million, that makes 2,200 tons.) By what magic is a thousand tons or more of bonemeal dumped into the River Vistula not going to leave a trace?
Jewish intellectual Leon Klinghoffer made an honest admission in the Forward. He pointed out that the Holocaust ideology is not only a “Jewish memory” but also a Jewish weapon against non-Jewish people: “"The world is aware how jealously the Jewish community guards the Holocaust, both as a memory and a weapon."[86] Indeed, the president of the Union for Reform Judaism, Rabbi Eric Yoffe, used the Holocaust ideology as a weapon against all Europeans. He stated: “And in Europe, which bears the mark of Cain for its complicity in the Holocaust, the Arab-Israeli conflict has become a means of absolving guilt. In turning Israelis from victims into Nazis, they [non-Jewish Europeans] seek to cleanse their consciences by casting their sins upon us [the Jews].”[87]
It seems, upon due consideration, to be all of a piece. And by no means just as to the Holocaust.
I had personally tracked, documented and communicated the repression, censorship, and intimidation of those who doubted the orthodox Holocaust canon for many years.[1] Over the last decade I witnessed an escalation of this persecution including the noteworthy imprisonments of David Irving, Germar Rudolf and Ernst Zündel among others. There can be little doubt that news of the incarceration of historians and writers with opposing viewpoints has had a chilling effect on honest investigation into the events of Second World War and the Holocaust.[2] While revision is in fact the essence of historiography, the grief is not worth the glory of toppling 65-year-old propaganda and mythology—safer topics (any other topic) beckon. Whether it is actual imprisonment or deportation or loss of employment or threats against one's life or those of one's family, the ritual defamation results, for many, in avoidance of the subject matter entirely. We will never know how many honest refutations of the official story of this era will never be written or told for fear of the "democratic totalitarians" and their "terror of the majority."
Having said all this, one fact remains: the Nazis were not true racists unless all other ethnostates at that time (and since) were also truly racist. Harry Truman, not Adolf Hitler, said the following: “I think one man is as good as another so long as he’s honest and decent and not a nigger or a Chinaman. Uncle Will...says that the Lord made a white man out of dust, a nigger from mud, then threw up what was left and it came down a Chinaman.” Had Hitler said this, historians certainly would have used it as evidence of his uncompromising racism. And yet, even though no such statements ever came out of Hitler’s mouth, not even with regard to Jews in private, historians have still consistently argued that he was an uncompromising racist, while conveniently ignoring the blatant and sometimes grossly inhuman racism of both Allied and non-German Axis leaders. The British conducted “bizarre tests of racial purity,” but only Berlin’s ‘racial purity’ tests were subjected to international scrutiny and attack.[12] Gerald Horne relayed that “[e]ven as the Empire seemed on the verge of being overrun by predatory Japanese troops, London was unwilling to accept offers of aid by people not of ‘pure European descent’— particularly for posts beyond simple soldiering. He went on to say, “This applied to ‘Dartmouth Cadetships and direct entry cadetships’ where the ‘practice of the interview committee’ was to ‘reject boys who evidently have a colour stain’.”[13] The British deliberately left racial references like this out of official memoranda just in case these memoranda ended up in anti-British hands. To cite another example: Croatians were hardly tolerant of Serbs during World War II, and yet we never read about this in most history books. Is it because Croats and Serbs do not deserve our historical inquiry? Are they somehow ‘less human’ or ‘less important’ than other ethnic groups of the era?
The witness obviously lacks any credibility. His book is quite similar to Eyewitness Auschwitz by Filip Müller: Full of errors, contradictions, fictional events and outrageous claims. Cohen writes that one reason for putting his experiences to paper is because of the intense allusions that the Holocaust is a myth. Unfortunately his book provides even more fuel to these allusions.
First: Why do we know so little about the oft-cited “6 million” figure? It appears everywhere that we hear about the Holocaust. The US Holocaust Memorial Museum website writes, “The Holocaust was the systematic, bureaucratic, state-sponsored persecution and murder of approximately six million Jews.”[2] The official Israeli institute Yad Vashem says, “The Holocaust was the murder of approximately six million Jews by the Nazis and their collaborators.”[3] Traditional historians are confident of this number; as Robinson (1976: 281) writes, “There can be no doubt as to the accuracy of the estimated figure of some six million victims.” The Holocaust Encyclopedia concurs: “The round figure of 6 million admits of no serious doubt.”[4]
Among the condemnations of Veale was that he “belittled” “Jewish survivor” testimony on the German manufacture of soap from the fat of exterminated Jews. As is now conceded, the allegation was indeed nonsense. Veale also claimed that the U.S. placed Germans into concentration camps without reason; another allegation by Veale that is now known to be correct.[41]
“This book was published after many years of silence. It was published after I went back and revisited those Nazi concentration camps where I had been a prisoner. I decided to publish this book for three reasons: my personal response to Holocaust denial, out of respect for the memory of those that did not survive, and in response to my children’s pleas.” (p. 167)
Seven more years were fated to pass by before the public was permitted to learn that Bletchley Park personnel were capable of far more than simply reading written German military messages. In 1981, cryptanalyst Francis H. Hinsley published the second volume of his book British Intelligence in the Second World War.[2] Hinsley's book revealed that the British Intelligence Service also eavesdropped on radio signals transmitted by the German police, SD and SS. This enabled the British to obtain not only reliable information on events behind the Russian Front, but on events in the German concentration camps as well.
Apart from his ad hominem attack and distorted presentation of revisionism, Evans deploys a third common tactic: silence on the key issues at hand. For example, he tells us nothing of the long and discrediting history of the ‘6 million’; nothing of the true meaning of vital German words such as Ausrottung and Vernichtung; nothing of what Hitler actually said about the Jews; nothing of the deportation plans such as Nisko and Madagascar; nothing of the Auschwitz air photos; and nothing of the absence of bodies or remains at nearly every phase of the Holocaust.
Barnes addressed the subject of the relationship between nationalism and historical writing in his History and Social Intelligence (1926). After running through a brief history of the importance of nationalism on world history, Barnes addressed the impact of nationalism on the writing of history. Barnes considered the nationalist movements in several nations including Germany, France, England, and the United States. Barnes was very negative about the impact of such writing including the work of Houston Stewart Chamberlain and those he called “the blatant Teutonists.”
Whether the statement of the IJA is well-founded or not is irrelevant to the fact that freedom of expression without fear of persecution is normally considered to be a fundamental right in modern civilized nations. This fact notwithstanding, critical commentators who have gone on record favoring Holocaust denial laws generally evince no compunction whatsoever when advocating limitations on freedom of speech whenever the latter disagrees with their own opinions or agenda. Moreover, the law as currently formulated and interpreted primarily focuses attention on only one tragic historical event to the exclusion of all others: National Socialist Germany’s persecution of the Jews. As such, the law trespasses over and into the realm of historical dogmatism and political correctness. It lends credence to the suggestion that Jews alone have suffered unique persecution and historical tragedies over and above all other people of the earth, necessitating special laws for their continued protection. The law attempts to coerce recusant historians to conform to the mainstream version of history or else suffer dire legal consequences. As such, these laws seek to place a muzzle on the conscience of humanity. Holocaust denial laws, then, are fundamentally flawed as they are based upon a dangerous form of legal coercion curtailing responsible freedom of expression. This fact alone demonstrates the palpable weaknesses inherent in such laws, and this vulnerability has not gone unnoticed or unexploited by other offended or ignored ethnic groups, which have attempted to jump on the Holocaust bandwagon demanding equal status under the law, thereby creating a quandary for courts and legislative bodies alike.
Judge Levin’s conduct of proceedings represented an appalling travesty of every principle of equity. He regularly intervened with bitter sarcasm or crude personal attacks, always at the expense of the accused, his counsel or witnesses called for the defence. He repeatedly took especial care to forbid without explanation the hearing of much of the evidence most damning to the prosecution case.
Apparently the statements of Schmidt and Dr. Widmann, which were made independently of each other and basically agreed, convinced the Public Prosecutors, so they refrained from using the photographs as evidence in the trial. This deals the final blow to this photograph (Fig. 9) as well.
On 15 November 1941, SS-Brigadeführer Glücks sent a secret order to the concentration camps that read as follows:
The “Extermination Camps” of “Aktion Reinhardt”: An Analysis and Refutation of Factitious “Evidence,” Deceptions and Flawed Argumentation of the “Holocaust Controversies” Bloggers, by Carlo Mattogno, Thomas Kues, and Juergen Graf, Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield, UK; 2013, 1385 pp.
For example, in 1982 a court in Stuttgart, Germany ordered the seizure of all copies of the book, Der Auschwitz Mythos (The Auschwitz Myth)[13] authored by Wilhelm Stäglich, a former German judge. The book had originally been published in 1979, but evidently acting on the basis of repeated complaints, the German prosecutor’s office applied for the book to be banned on the ground that, by “denying the Nazi mass murder of Jews during the Second World War, it was inciting hatred against Jews.”[14]
The third and last point is the 1960 Broszat letter. The final paragraph of this text makes it clear that it was written as a response to early revisionism (Broszat does not name Rassinier or any other revisionist writer, but instead speaks of "some ineducable people" who "make use of a few arguments that, while correct, are polemically taken out of context"). This shows that Holocaust historians were aware of the revisionists already from the start, and that by 1960 they had already adopted the strategy of discreetly cutting out the most untenable parts of the gas chamber mythos (without even for a moment considering the evidential foundation of the remainder) while avoiding naming the revisionists whose writings made these tactical retreats necessary.
Anyway, it is made clear that the gassings in the new chambers took at least twice as long time as in the old ones. But then, as shown above, the 1965 Treblinka trial verdict found that the new chambers had been built with a much lower ceiling in order to shorten the time required for the gassings! It hardly needs to be pointed out, moreover, that it hardly makes sense that the Germans would have constructed the new chambers to be not only of smaller size than the old ones, but also less time-effective. What happened to the famous “German efficiency”?
Lipstadt complains that the Huffington Post's article about the forgotten “other” victims of the Holocaust was basically anti-Semitic, because, she said, it implied that the Jews were stealing the Holocaust for themselves.
We can take for granted that Widmann has developed an efficient method for killing people at the beginning of the euthanasia action in late 1939 – bottled carbon monoxide. It's been tested and found foolproof. In late 1941 he is then allegedly asked to help jump-start a similar program in Minsk. Yet instead of putting this expertise to "good" use, he is said to have taken along 400 kg(!) of explosives in order to blow up the mentally ill people, which turns out to be a bloody mess – surprise, surprise! And since not all people died with the first round of dynamite, they blow them up a second time, only to find corpse parts scattered all over the surrounding trees…
“And the problem then is, if you have a 30-year writing career, and the press gets to know that you don’t defend yourself, they think it’s open season. And by 1996, I could see, as I stood at the bottom of this alley, a mudslide thundering down the slopes towards me and threatening to engulf me. And the only way to stop that mudslide was to start frantically hammering pegs into the countryside, which I did with these writs. I issued a writ against Deborah Lipstadt for the book that she wrote attacking me called ‘Denying the Holocaust.’ […] Nothing that I write is good. Everything that I write is bad, mendacious, distorted, lying, fallacious, deliberately following a political agenda. All the accusations that were made against me by Deborah Lipstadt. And now they are surprised and pained to find themselves at the receiving end of a libel writ since 1996. And they are hoping that I go away. And to their horror, I am not going away, because I have just issued fresh steps in that particular action. And we are going through that whole hell again next year or the year  after, because I don’t lie down.”
The Judge Advocate in Manstein’s trial began his speech summing up the evidence on Monday, December 12, 1949, and concluded his presentation on December 19. Manstein was found not guilty of eight of the most serious charges. Six of the other charges had their wording amended so that Manstein was guilty only of crimes of omission rather than of commission. Manstein was found guilty without amendment on three of the charges, and was sentenced to 18 years of imprisonment. He was released from prison in May 1953.[29]
The ESC in Moscow probably began drafting its own report as early as in July 1945, immediately after receiving the reports from Sachsenhausen. Whatever his other talents may have been, Semyonov was not exactly a literary genius; his various drafts virtually cried for improvement. The fact that his report about a complex subject – a large concentration camp – was not even subdivided into sections shows that he was unable to present the topic in a logical and systematic way. While the fate of seven British sailors was discussed in great detail on several pages, only a few lines were dedicated to the 14,000 Soviet POWs (allegedly) shot at Sachsenhausen. These glaring shortcomings can perhaps be explained by the fact that Semyonov first wanted to feel out the wishes and intentions of his superiors because delicate questions were not discussed openly.
Mit zunehmender Überbelegung stiegen ebenso die Opferzahlen in Andersonville. Auch die Südstaaten verloren den Krieg auf eine katastrophale Weise, ähnlich wie die Deutschen. Es gibt also einen direkten Zusammenhang zwischen den Bildern von Gefangenen in Andersonville und den sogenannten Holocaust-Bildern.
“Many of them died from typhus. Dachau’s crematoriums couldn’t keep up with the burning of the bodies. They did not have enough oil to keep the incinerators going. I found that a number of the victims had also died from tuberculosis. All of them were malnourished. The medical facilities were most inadequate. There was no sanitation…
In his standard work about the “Holocaust,” Raul Hilberg claims that 750,000 Jews were murdered at Treblinka, 550,000 at Belzec, and 200.000 at Sobibor[18], which means that according to Hilberg, the total death toll for the three Reinhardt camps was 1.5 million. This figure is lower by 900,000 than the one peddled by David Irving (1.274 million for 1942 plus more than a million for 1943 = about 2.4 million).
Diese nach der Befreiung aufgenommenen Bilder von Bergen-Belsen sowie Dachau und Nordhausen sind zu Symbolen der deutschen Barbarei geworden. Aber diese Menschen waren Opfer des größeren Krieges, nicht einer vorsätzlichen deutschen Vernichtungspolitik. Die Deutschen taten, was sie konnten, um die Menschen am Leben zu erhalten, und in einigen Fällen kontaktierte sie das Rote Kreuz um Hilfe und übergaben ihnen sogar einige Lager. Die beschämende Wahrheit, die sich hinter dieser Holocaust-Propaganda verbirgt, ist nicht nur, dass keine diese Leute vergast wurden, sondern dass die Alliierten eine wichtige Rolle bei ihrem Tod spielten.
The van dutifully arrived the next morning. But I soon realized that, as at Auschwitz itself, the tour was not quite as expected. The vehicle—a bit larger than I anticipated, more like a small bus—had a capacity of about 25 people. I was one of the first in, and the driver proceeded to cover much of the city in order to pick up our remaining guests. But between rush hour traffic, construction delays, and people slow getting out to the bus, a good hour went by before we were even ready to depart Krakow. So my “6-hour tour” was now down to five. And of course it would require another hour or so to return everyone; in other words, I was really getting a “4-hour tour.” Not sure that that counts as a “day trip,” but such is the life of a tourist in Poland. (I’m no tour planner, but it seemed to me that, if everyone simply walked to the central tourist office and met the bus there, that we could have saved a couple hours…)
So, we arrive at the main point: Extermination with poison gas. But on this critical issue, Kounio has absolutely nothing specific to say. Nothing on the gas chambers, nothing on the crematories. Number, location, operation, anything at all, are totally absent. There are only vague descriptions like this:
Let’s now turn to historical arguments themselves, which aren’t the core of Lipstadt’s book, but they are the core of the issue at hand. Before doing that, let us summarize how Dr. Lipstadt backs up factual claims. When analyzing her endnotes, we find that she relies heavily on political propaganda material, to a large degree written by the political pressure group ADL; she very frequently doesn’t quote the source itself but third-party publications writing about them;[36] she cites source material that is utterly “unquotable,” most prominent among them a collection of newspaper clippings,[37] and relies on only one author – Pressac – when discussing the core issue: were there homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz to exterminate the Jews? In many cases, however, she makes claims which she doesn’t back up with anything at all.
The number of prominent individuals prosecuted for thought crime is steadily increasing. On January 3, 2006, Georges Theil, 65 years old and a former elected official from the British National Front, was found guilty of “Crimes against humanity for denying the Holocaust,” (!) under the Fabius-Gayssot Act of July 13, 1990. Theil had dared to publicly question the existence and operation of Nazi gas chambers when, during the course of a television program, he referred to Nazi gas chambers as “a fantasy.” Theil was subsequently sentenced to six months' imprisonment without parole, saddled with the substantial costs of publishing the verdict in two newspapers, and ordered to pay a $12,000 fine along with a remittance of $4,800 to each of the eleven plaintiffs who lodged a complaint against him. An additional remittance of $4,800 to each of the plaintiffs to recover their court costs, and a payment of €90 to cover procedural fees was also imposed by the court.[31]
No, blame for the Holocaust has seeped out not only to nearby neutrals such as Switzerland for not providing as much refuge as hindsight suggests might have been wanted, but beyond to conquered countries such as Poland and France, and on to even those countries that spilled vast amounts of their blood and treasure to stop and kill the Nazi monster such as the United States and Great Britain.
Stalin also greatly expanded the vast network of labor camps known as the Gulag that began under Lenin’s regime. Mass terror against real and alleged opponents was a part of the Soviet Revolution from the very beginning, and people (classes) deemed to be “unreliable elements” were locked up in concentration camps outside major towns. Thus, from the earliest days of the new Soviet state, people were sentenced not for what they had done, but for who they were.[3]
I am here in Poland at the Auschwitz death camp, where it is estimated that 1.1 to 1.5 million people perished here in the Holocaust.”
[35] Marcuse, Harold, Legacies of Dachau: The Uses and Abuses of a Concentration Camp, 1933-2001, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001, p. 229.
Traditional historians would undoubtedly like to see the infamous Dachau gas chamber simply fade away. Playing no role in the Holocaust, it serves no real purpose. The many problems and inconsistencies make it more of an embarrassment than asset to the orthodox view. And in truth it is more than an embarrassment; such deception threatens to undermine major aspects of the entire Holocaust story. A purpose-built gas chamber, right on German soil, sitting for two years…but ‘never used’? So maybe all those other gas chambers in Poland were likewise ‘never used’? All those indications of reconstruction, alteration, fraud…perhaps recurring in places like Auschwitz and Majdanek?[16] A complicit mass media, directed by the Sulzbergers, Pulitzers, Goldwyns, Cohns, and Selznicks of the world, happy to play along, unwilling to ask tough questions or conduct an impartial investigation…could that happen today? And a situation rife with American lies to justify Allied war crimes and defend a tragic story of Jewish suffering…what shall we make of that? Best not to ask too many questions.
“In 1944, another modern disinfectant was already being used for the disinfection of barracks, which was the German equivalent of the American DDT, the ‘Lauseto.’ During that year, the Auschwitz Camp’s department in charge of pest control (‘Referat für Schädlingsbekämpfung der Waffen SS und Polizei Auschwitz O/S’) received 9 tons of this chemical on 18 April 1944, 15 tons on 21 August 1944 – and 2 tons on 3 October 1944 for the camp’s pharmacy. Archive of Bayer in Leverkusen, letter by Paulsen [a company executive?] to the lawyer Dr. Nele of 24 November 1947 with a brief list of the deliveries.” (Note 105, p. 72)
On the Charlie Rose Show I was called an ‘anti-Semite’ and a ‘neo-Nazi’ by Deborah Lipstadt. I called her up after that and reminded her that I’d read her book, and I sent her a nice note about it and told her what I was trying to do in my book, and I said ‘How could you have said that about me?’ She said ‘You are worse than a “Holocaust denier,”’ and I said ‘Deborah, I’m worse than a ‘Holocaust denier?’ and she said ‘You are worse than a “Holocaust denier”’. I said ‘Could you explain why?,’ and she said ‘No. I have a faculty meeting,’ and that’s the last I talked to her. It doesn’t scare me. It doesn’t hurt me. It amuses me.[26]
In January of this year, Pope Benedict XVI lifted the ban of excommunication on four Bishops from the traditionalist Society of St. Pius X, who had been excommunicated in 1988 after being ordained against Vatican orders by the late Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre. This would have generated very little news had it not been for the fact that one of them, Bishop Richard Williamson, gave an interview on Swedish television in which he rejected the orthodox Holocaust story. Williamson said historical evidence “is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler.” He agreed with Holocaust revisionists who he said concluded that “between 200,000-300,000 perished in Nazi concentration camps, but not one of them by gassing.”[1]
To Crowell’s credit, he set out to accomplish something that had not been done before in revisionist writing on the Holocaust.  Ruling out grand conspiracy explanations for the gas chamber story, Crowell sought to identify cultural forces that converged to produce the story.  To do this he took a literary approach, treating the various testimonies and information as pieces of literature and arranged them all chronologically.   Crowell’s approach took dead aim at the gas chamber stories as he recognized that these were at the heart of the revisionist challenge.  Other than Crowell, few revisionists have taken on the entirety of the gas chamber mythology.  One exception is Arthur Butz who was clearly influential on Crowell’s thinking.  Most revisionists have rather dissected or debunked specific camps, specific witnesses, or specific events.
“Evidence” as dubious as the “bone mill” of Lemberg is insufficient to support the story of the 100,000 or even 200,000 Jews murdered at Yanov Camp. Quite like the “gloves made of human skin” and the “soap made from human fat,” the “bone mill” is an invention of Soviet war propaganda. Up to now, the successor states of the Soviet Union have failed to jettison this mendacious legacy. Almost seven decades have elapsed since the end of World War Two. It is time for an objective analysis of this tragic period of European history.
In this article, I will scrutinize the most critical aspects of the portrayal of Treblinka in Rajchman’s memoirs, namely the description of the alleged extermination procedure: the gas chamber killings and the subsequent cremation of the victims. In the process I will also refer to and make comparisons with, a declaration left by Rajchman to a Polish investigative commission in October 1945, his testimony from the 1987-1988 trial against John Demjanjuk in Jerusalem[8], and an interview with him conducted by the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (USHMM) in December 1988. I will also make frequent comparisons with the 1944 Treblinka account written by Jankel Wiernik, who arrived at the camp some months before Rajchman and is generally regarded as a key witness[9]. Both Wiernik’s Rok w Treblince (published the same year in the United States as A Year in Treblinka and later re-translated and published by Alexander Donat) and Rajchman’s memoirs date from approximately the same time, and both men supposedly worked in the “death camp proper”, the section of Treblinka containing the alleged gas chamber buildings and the mass graves (Rajchman even mentions Wiernik by name on page 89 of the memoirs). One might therefore assume that both men wrote down their recollections relatively fresh from memory.
A Himmler letter from this time cites Hitler’s authorization to begin with an initial shipment of 60,000 Jews to the Lodz ghetto. This action was key to the “gathering whirlwind of extermination,” says Kershaw. But even this was no Final Solution order. “It is doubtful whether a single, comprehensive decision of such a kind was ever made.” Instead, “numerous local and regional Nazi leaders…seized on the opportunity…to start killing Jews in their own areas” (p. 481). The killing was as yet haphazard; a “coordinated, comprehensive programme of total genocide…would still take some months to emerge.”
The 2,365 kg of Zyklon B delivered to Auschwitz in March corresponded to (2,365 kg ÷ 55 kg/crate =) 43 crates, equivalent to (43 cates × 12 cans/crate =) 516 cans with 1.2 kg HCN each, with a net weight of (43 crates × 14.4 kg/crate =) 618,2 kg of HCN.
In 1995, Spain and Belgium jumped on the bandwagon and outlawed ‘Holocaust denial.’ In the case of Belgium, the government had apparently been under pressure from various Jewish organizations that took offense at Belgium-published revisionist literature. A triumphant article printed in the London Jewish Chronicle candidly revealed that “the Belgian Government intends to co-operate with B’nai B’rith in prosecuting the publisher, printer and distributor of a Dutch-language revisionist pamphlet printed in Antwerp.”[46]
“The Sonderkommando (special Jewish crews forced to work in the gas chambers and crematoria) foreman told me, ‘We have to empty the gas chamber by loading the bodies onto trolleys, rail trolleys like you use on building sites. You have to heave them onto these trolleys because they are not flat trolleys, they are tipper trucks. So we have to heave them high into these tipper trucks then by rail take them to the crematorium where they are burnt. There are rows of ovens, each oven is big enough to take three. So we take a fat man or a fat woman, a smaller person and a child. This is how we save fuel. The fat of the fat person helps to burn the others.’ He said the hardest thing is to dispose of those who come from the camp and die of natural causes because they are so emaciated, there is no fat on them. They take so much fuel that the Germans stop the burning and leave the bones on the plate so that the next lot will burn the bones until there are only ashes left.” (p. 164)
Supplement 2: The alleged homicidal gas chamber of Auschwitz-I (“Everything in it is false,” as Eric Conan ended up admitting)
While Sherlock is not perfect, it is invaluable.  It is clearly the work of a passionate scholar— a scholar who writes without an axe to grind.  He has called himself a “moderate” revisionist, but I would like to consider him a “neo-revisionist.”  A revisionist who has gone back to a sound historical method like that used by the scholars who established the movement in the years following World War One.  I can only hope that his work also inspires a new generation that will one day write a new history of the destruction of the Jews during World War Two.  New scholars may someday be able to write such an objective history of what did and did not happen during this dark period of history, but only if the censors and legislators understand that it is reasonable to doubt the orthodox Holocaust story.  It is for the freedom to write and research especially in an environment of draconian political “correctness” and hypersensitivity that Sherlock was written.
Given those considerations, consider an article that appeared in Le Monde on 8 February 2018, about Faurisson’s appeal against the Ariane Chemin article, entitled “The final battle [L’ultime bataille] of the Holocaust denier Robert Faurisson.” Early in the story, it was noted Faurisson was 89. I could not help but interpret this story as expressing, among other things, both glee and regret that this Goldstein would soon be gone. To paraphrase a recent US president, they won’t have Robert Faurisson to kick around anymore.
Cox lists several additional factors indicating that the alleged-homicidal gas chambers had a significantly higher tendency of forming long-term-stable cyanide residue than the disinfestation buildings. He concludes:
After all, if Holocaust revisionists are so stupid and so completely in error, as many commentators have averred, how come that they are so feared and so continually denigrated? The suspicion must arise that there is something fishy in the situation. As anyone who has bothered to actually read in detail the works of leading historical revisionists, such as Robert Faurisson, Germar Rudolf, Jürgen Graf, Wilhelm Stäglich, Arthur Butz, Carlo Mattogno and many others, it is utterly plain that misrepresentation on the grand scale is involved. The truth is, then, that in Australia recently we have witnessed mass vilification of, and hatred towards, a group of people as part of the national debate about vilification law, and that this vilification has often been made by those favoring repeal of the law and putting themselves forward as defenders of free speech! One is reminded of Puck’s words in A Midsummer Night’s Dream: “Lord, what fools these mortals be!”
Or maybe it’s the other way around: her choice of the term “denier” is her way of calling the revisionists names in order to disparage them from the outset. It all depends on whether Holocaust revisionism aka denial has any scholarly merit or not. In Lipstadt’s eyes, though, this can’t be, because if it were, she would have to take their arguments seriously and maybe even debate them, and that she categorically refuses to do:
Before we continue it is important to note some alleged features of the Treblinka camp structure. As per eyewitness testimony, Treblinka was divided into two main sections: the “lower camp” where the deportees were received and where their deposited clothing was sorted, and the smaller “upper camp” which supposedly contained the gas chamber buildings as well as the mass graves and the “grills” for the cremation of the corpses. The two sections were separated by a camouflaged wire fence and a huge sand rampart. In general the Jewish prisoner workers of these two camp sections were kept separated from each other.[4] Richard Glazar was part of the Jewish work commando in the lower camp and thus not a witness to the alleged extermination and incineration process per se. He therefore provides no information regarding the construction or fuel consumption of the cremation pyres.
So, the editors’ goal was to preserve the memories of the survivors in order to combat the growing doubt about the “undeniable facts.” They should be thanked for their efforts, of course, but despite what they believe, a critical reading reveals that these testimonies poke quite a few holes in the official version of events. The survivors suffered a lot, but when it comes to planned mass extermination, not only are there many inconsistencies, but even the infamous gas chambers very rarely appear. In time, this work might prove to be another nail in the coffin of the official storyline.
In a paraphrase of Dr. Robert Faurisson’s Holocaust revisionist argument, Vidal-Naquet’s translator states the dilemma in the form of a question: “Moreover, since numerous eyewitness reports [about the “homicidal gas chambers”] had already been discredited, on what basis could anyone accept any such testimony?”[28] Once again, the reader should ask himself this question. How can the testimony of survivors of the “death camps” prove that the Holocaust and the death of six million Jews is a historical fact when so many of these testimonies have been shown to be unreliable?
The last leg of the stool is knocked out when Sand presents the extensive evidence that today’s Jewry around the globe are not of common descent—not from the intrepid band that never wandered forty years in the desert seeking the Promised Land, nor from any other single cohort of ancestors. This particular disillusionment is attained—again, not by Sand, but by archaeologists, philologists and geneticists whose work Sand abundantly references—primarily through disclosure that, before it was eclipsed in most places by Christianity or Islam, Judaism was a proselytizing religion very much on the lines of its just-named successors. Sand adduces persuasively massive conversions of populations having no biological relationship to the original cadre of former slaves chosen by God himself on that day long, long ago to inherit the land between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River. At the time Sand was writing, genetic studies that he cites were oscillating violently among conclusions supporting, failing to support, and supporting in most-peculiar ways the legend so necessary to the entitlements claimed by Israel, that substantially all Jews are to at least some extent descended from the recipients of the Divine Land Grant. And apropos of this thrashing back and forth of conclusions of genetic studies, which continues to the present day, Sand cites a particularly fascinating and profoundly significant line of inquiry pursued from at least 2005 by Greek medical researcher J. P. Ioannidis, in which he proves the title of his landmark article, “[…] Most Published Research Findings Are False.” While Ioannidis’s examples are in many cases drawn from the field of inference from genetics, it does not appear that he investigates any that underlie national mythologies. He confines himself to studies linking genes to diseases or other maladies. But the pertinence of the dynamics Ioannidis describes in case after case apply to Israel’s genetic mythology so directly that Sand leaves the entire matter to a mere footnote.
Hence, in spite of "an almost unmanageably large quantity of documents available" to researchers, a definitive account of the decision process is lacking; "the state of source material can only be described as 'patchy'" (p. 8). The most important orders, he says, were verbal. Vital documents were destroyed. And all remaining documents "relating to the murder of the Jews are written in a language designed to veil their true purpose"—thus the infamous 'code language' theory is evidently alive and well, despite a total absence of evidence.
While Jews and non-Jews alike advocate vigilance to prevent another Holocaust and that the events should never be forgotten, in what can only be described as naïveté, the focus remains on jack-booted SS-men and modern day neo-Nazis as if they would be the likely source of a future atrocity. In fact the very refusal to acknowledge the crimes perpetrated against the German people after World War II exemplifies how little we have learned.
In this context it should be mentioned that the shootings with small-caliber pistols were carried out in a big wooden storage shed in the northern sector of the Industrial Yard which was screened by walls and buildings. Except for the approximately eight crematorium workers, few other prisoners were employed there. The bulk of the inmates had no access to this sector and could therefore neither see nor hear what was transpiring there – a situation which favored the development of wild rumors. Several crucial aspects of the Russenaktion, such as the date when the killings began and the number of victims, still remain obscure.
A more important fundamental cause of this awakening seems to be the massive influx of “rape-u-gees” that was allowed under Angela Merkel, a trauma that has shocked many Germans (including Austrian Germans) out of their acquiescence. The two well known Querdenker who also dispute the Holocaust, Nikolai Nerling and Attila Hildmann, happen to condemn mass-immigration too. Nerling has warned against being overrun with foreigners (Überfremdung) and “the extinction of the German people.” Hildmann, despite being an ethnic Turk, has accused Jews of wanting “to exterminate the German race,” and fled to Turkey in early 2021 before he could be arrested and prosecuted for Volksverhetzung and other offenses (M. Manakas, Der Standard, 4 November 2021).  (Nerling also fled Germany, taking refuge in Brazil for a time, but has now returned.) Dr. Erwin Annau is an Austrian Querdenker who has founded a colony for German refugees in Paraguay, the number one motive for which he identifies as Migrationskrise, the immigration-flood under Merkel in Germany and Faymann in Austria, which he calls “the greatest high treason in history” (E. Annau, 31 October 2016). From a very different perspective Niklas Frank, a very liberal journalist and son of Hans Frank, observes that the massive influx of undesirable immigrants allowed by Merkel has caused serious unrest among most Germans:
“I daresay that my minute is too late to be of use but I feel certain that we are making a mistake in publicly giving credence to this gas chambers story.”
It appears that soon after the war there was also made a typewriter transcription of the original, which we will call HB-7b. It was typed on a German typewriter which did not have the SS runes. It can be inferred from the archive stamps and the pagination that this copy once was, or still is, in some Moscow archive and that (later) a low-quality photocopy (HB-7c) was sent to Sachsenhausen.
False Jewish-eyewitness testimony has often been used to attempt to convict innocent defendants. For example, John Demjanjuk, a naturalized American citizen, was accused by eyewitnesses of being a murderous guard at Treblinka named Ivan the Terrible. Demjanjuk was deported to Israel, and an Israeli court tried and convicted him primarily based on the eyewitness testimony of five Jewish survivors of Treblinka. Demjanjuk’s defense attorney eventually uncovered new evidence proving that the Soviet KGB had framed Demjanjuk by forging documents supposedly showing him to be a guard at Treblinka. The Israeli Supreme Court ruled that the five Jewish eyewitness accounts were not credible and that Demjanjuk was innocent.[25]
Be that as it may, all of these governments and groups had or still have powerful non-Jewish people in them who harbor non-Jewish political interests, and at least some of the latter coincide with Jewish interests on the issue of the Holocaust mythology. Many members of these non-Jewish groups likely believe that the traditional Holocaust story is objectively true, but this in no way nullifies the fact that they also have underlying agendas that motivates them to promote this doctrine.
Anyone familiar with the official presentation of Majdanek will be surprised to read this. While it is true that the Polish-Soviet commission, in its report of August 1944, mentioned gas-vans operating at Majdanek[6], this allegation was subsequently dropped by the orthodox historians: the official literature on the camp speaks only of the stationary homicidal use of Zyklon-B and carbon monoxide. The extent of the evidence concerning the use of gas-vans at the Lublin camp is given by Kranz six pages further on:
Self-help guru Deepak Chopra, M.D. also believes in the official Holocaust narrative. Chopra states in an interview:[15]
“We don’t know much about the Zyklon deliveries during the year 1944; according to research by F. Piper, the camp received 2,263 kg of gas in four deliveries during that year; independent of these, the company ‘Azot’ of Jaworzno delivered 1,155 kg of Zyklon between August 1943 and April 1944 to Auschwitz Concentration Camp.” (p. 72)
Dr. Lipstadt wrote her book at a time when Holocaust revisionism underwent a paradigm shift. Triggered by Fred Leuchter’s expert report,[24] many new researchers joined that school of thought and gave it a major boost, resulting in a wide range of publications. Here is a list of the most important authors among them. Again, apologies in case we missed anyone.
In 1979 the US government allowed two former members of the CIA to publish aerial photographs taken of Auschwitz during the war.[13] These were meant by the authors as proof of “the Holocaust” but, in reality, they belie the existence of a whole set of material realities that would have accompanied the gassing and cremation, day after day, of thousands of victims; none of the photos taken during the 32 Allied air missions over the Auschwitz complex shows any queues outside the crematoria, and none reveals the existence of the veritable mountains of coke that would have been needed for huge cremations; the gardens adjacent to crematoria II and III, well laid out, bear no mark of constant daily trampling by victims; near them are to be seen a football field, a volleyball court, numerous hospital barracks, settling ponds, the vast “Sauna,” etc.
Alfred Hitchcock's unfinished propaganda film Memory of the Camps, which was never released during Hitchcock's lifetime but in 1985 began to be shown annually on PBS's Frontline, discusses a variety of camps but mentions Jews only twice, in connection with Bergen-Belsen and Buchenwald.
Even out-and-out lies are deemed acceptable if they uphold the new ideologies that shape public opinion. One of the most egregious lies is that of the eleven million victims of Nazism. The popular tale is that in addition to the six million Jewish victims, there are five million “other victims” of the Holocaust. Author Peter Novick explains the origin of the myth,
There are two references to Zyklon B in Human Smoke. The first recounts the agent’s intended insecticidal use at Auschwitz in early 1941. That vignette is signed in a plaintive, ominous drumbeat: “The lice died.” The second comes later in the same year and is derived from Rudolf Hoess’s problematic confessions. That serious and decent people could be moved to doubt the latter event would scarcely occur to Baker. That the Wannsee minutes might be subject to a less nefarious interpretation than what is allowed is a possibility withheld from consideration. Baker sincerely believes what most good people believe.
The first trial held in Nuremberg from 1945 to 1946, officially known as the International Military Tribunal (IMT), is the most important of these trials. The governments of the United States, the Soviet Union, Great Britain and France tried the most prominent surviving German leaders as war criminals in this trial. In addition, the United States government alone conducted 12 secondary Nuremberg trials (NMT) from 1946 to 1949. Similar trials were also conducted in other locations by Great Britain, West Germany, the United States and Israel, including the highly-publicized trial in Israel of Adolf Eichmann.
Further on in his ruling, Matia made this most important statement: “This [case against John Demjanjuk] is a case of documentary evidence, not eyewitness testimony.”[6] Here, what Matia wrote is misleading. The current case about Demjanjuk allegedly serving at Sobibor is based upon purportedly authentic documents. But what Matia asserts about Sobibor being an “extermination camp” is based exclusively upon eyewitness testimony.
She provides no source for that claim, though. So maybe she merely repeated what she had heard through Wiesenthal’s grapevine? But is it really Wiesenthal’s? Interestingly, the very same Washington Holocaust Museum that, according to just-quoted article in The Times of Israel, issued a statement on Trump’s text emphasizing the centrality of the annihilation of the Jews to the understanding of the Holocaust, had announced in 2013 in a press release that their research has revealed that:
One of the earliest postwar sources about Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp is the so-called “Prisoner’s Report” which was compiled under the supervision of Hellmut Bock, a communist and former inmate of the camp. The first draft was ready by 7 May, just two weeks after the SS had left the camp. The German original of this first draft has been lost, but an English translation has survived. In the following weeks the report underwent several changes. Quite obviously the Soviet victors, acting through a sub-commission of the “Extraordinary State Commission” (ESC) which carried out investigations in the camp, figured as “commissioning editors.” Altogether eight versions of the report exist. A comparison of their contents is highly revealing, as it shows considerable differences. There can be no doubt whatsoever that the Soviet investigators influenced the final version of the “Sachsenhausen Death Camp”, which is tenaciously propagated even today, from the very beginning.
The first and most conspicuous thing that distinguished Cole from other Holocaust revisionists (as they were still referred to in those days, when the artifice of civility had yet to give way to the “denier” shibboleth), was, of course, the fact that he was, perhaps more than nominally, Jewish. Cole’s Jewish identity was at once a hook and a problem. On the one hand, his Jew-cred ingratiated him to many revisionists who understandably wanted, for the most part sincerely, to disassociate their work from the thick funk of anti-Semitism that surrounded it. On the other hand, the specter of a “Jewish Holocaust revisionist” rankled the guardians of orthodoxy for whom the public image of a Jewish gas chamber skeptic presented a dangerous rift in a carefully crafted Manichean narrative that had long served to marginalize and stigmatize – and across certain borders, criminalize – critical engagement with what I like to call “the other side of genocide.”
[18] Carlo Mattogno, Auschwitz: Crematorium I and the Alleged Homicidal Gassings, Theses & Dissertations Press, Chicago, Ill., 2005 (now available in its 2nd ed., Castle Hill Publishers, Uckfield 2016).
Gideon Behar, one of two Israeli delegates to the body, said that the definition was important because it was the first document ratified by an international body to detail what is considered acceptable by Western democracies. Behar commented, "If you say that only two million Jews were killed, that is Holocaust denial according to this definition."[10] Behar did not comment on exactly how much variation from the six million might be allowed.
Brothers Abraham and Shlomo Dragon claim to have been Sonderkommandos stationed at Birkenau. Shlomo recalled his first encounter with dead bodies at a cottage known as Bunker 2: “As [SS officer Otto] Moll opened the door of the house, bodies fell out. We smelled gas. We saw corpses of both sexes. The whole place was full of naked people on top of each other falling out.”[19]
“The gas chamber at Belzec, which was called ‘Heckenholt-Stiftung’. The prisoners were killed within 32 minutes by the exhaust gas of a Diesel engine. Gerstein, who had assisted at this action, describes the procedure in his report. Heckenholt was the [illegible] of the facility and the one who started the engine.”
Edward L. Van Roden told Everett that he also paid a price for his involvement in the Malmédy case. Strong circumstantial evidence indicates that Van Roden had been blacklisted by the judge advocate general’s office and denied further active duty in the army reserves, with likely adverse effects on his retirement prospects.[25]
The third fundamental issue canvassed by the Declaration is headed ‘Identifying the threat’. Parliamentarians are encouraged to agitate for the establishment of ‘inquiry scrutiny panels’, an ominous phrase that again brings to mind the past use by other powers of various inquisitorial investigation tribunals. Moreover, the law of the land is to be manipulated to serve the interests of those intent on proscribing ‘anti-Semitism’: ‘training material’ is to be prepared ‘for use by Criminal Justice Agencies’. One wonders why centuries of legal tradition in the major European countries is not seen as already more than capable of righting serious injustices.
This and many other questions may never be answered about Katyn. The perpetrators themselves are mostly passed away, the documentary evidence is still only gradually surfacing from the former Soviet archives, and much of same has been destroyed and is thus lost forever. The world has mostly forgotten Katyn—although Poland remembers. But it too must remember other, related events from its own history, if justice is to ever prevail.
One day in July or August 1945 Emil SEHM told me the following: “Now I can tell you why I wanted to leave the firm of TESCH and STABENOW”. He showed me a letter that he had written to the British Military Authorities. It said that Dr TESCH had been in BERLIN with the Commander of the Wehrmacht and Dr TESCH had been told by the Commander of the WEHRMACHT that he or a member of his firm would have to instruct 30 SS men in how to use BLAUSAUERE-GAS [sic]. These SS men, when they had been instructed in the use of this gas, had to wear gas masks and go into the barrack rooms in the concentration camps and put tablets of the gas in the corners of the room and go out and shut the door.
The “Nazi gas chamber” mythology provides the Russian people with an exaggerated self-image as heroic liberators and freedom fighters. After all, so the propaganda line goes, they “saved the world” from the clutches of the “evil Germans” who were “attempting to exterminate” the “inferior races” who opposed them. Take away the Holocaust mythology, and what do we end up with?
While any critical analysis of the events that comprise the Holocaust may be prohibited or simply avoided, the Holocaust itself is at the center of the tornado that is “liberal totalitarianism” today. There is such a strong desire to find and teach the lessons of the Holocaust that a central point appears to be lost. The lesson of the Holocaust has evolved into one that suggests that all people of good conscience must stand opposed to all forms of intolerance and hatred at all costs. Failure to do so will allow future or present-day Hitlers to rise to power once again.
Polish hostility toward Germany was brought to surface when the late Pope John Paul II visited Auschwitz in June 1979. When asked how he felt about Germans, one Polish citizen was quoted as saying: “As a Christian, it is my duty to forgive, but as a Pole and as a human being I am still thinking it over.”[81] Just as the Holocaust mythology serves to “justify” Jewish hatred of Germans, so to does it serve to “justify” Polish suspicion and hostility toward Germans.
Auschwitz—Forensically Examined by Cyrus Cox summarizes the forensic evidence proving that Auschwitz was not an extermination camp. This article will review some of the important points mentioned in this book.
At the present time, there are no “Holocaust denial” laws in the United States of America, although attempts have been repeatedly made behind the scenes by Jewish organizations and individuals to try and penalize “deniers” by various means. When one ventures into the arena of “Holocaust denial,” unpleasant consequences invariably ensue.
For Russians — and it is surely right that this should become true for the world as a whole — Kolyma [one part of the Gulag] is a word of horror wholly comparable to Auschwitz … it did indeed kill some three million people, a figure well in the range of that of the victims of the Final Solution.9
This Jewish influence caused the Allies to give special attention to the alleged extermination of 6 million Jews. Chief U.S. Prosecutor Robert H. Jackson, for example, declared in his opening address to the Nuremberg Tribunal: “The most savage and numerous crimes planned and committed by the Nazis were those against the Jews…It is my purpose to show a plan and design to which all Nazis were fanatically committed, to annihilate all Jewish people…The avowed purpose was the destruction of the Jewish people as a whole…History does not record a crime ever perpetrated against so many victims or one ever carried out with such calculated cruelty.”[33]
“But Goodson appears to be pushing pro-Nazi and anti-Semitic views on the internet. In a radio interview last year with American talk show host Deanna Spingola, author of The Ruling Elite: A Study in Imperialism, Genocide and Emancipation, Goodson expressed his admiration for the social achievements during the Third Reich.”[47]
The traditional extermination story at Sobibor has no authentic war-time documentation to support it, nor does it have any forensic or physical evidence to prove it. It is based exclusively upon the testimony of former Sobibor inmates and the post-war testimony of former German and Ukrainian soldiers who served at Sobibor.
“Nor is such denial the pastime of a few eccentric individuals. Holocaust denial in particular has become an industry. The denialist movement has held conferences, publishes journals and has established organisations such as the ‘Institute for Historical Review’ and the ‘Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust’. Its followers are keen to occupy the spotlight in print media and on the internet.” (p. 2)
After his transfer to Auschwitz, Stroumsa felt during a night a sharp pain in his lower abdomen. He went to the hospital, where an SS doctor diagnosed a hernia and ordered surgery. Stroumsa was trembling with fear and could not sleep at night. On the next day he was in the surgery room. They told him not to be afraid as they would administer a local anesthetic. After the injection, they tied him to the table. As he was lying there watching everything he wondered:
The British troops who captured the Bergen-Belsen Concentration Camp on April 15, 1945 also lost no time in mistreating the SS camp personnel. Most of the German guards were beaten with rifle butts, kicked, stabbed with bayonets, shot or worked to death.[20] The British liberators in an act of spite expelled the residents of the nearby town of Bergen, and then permitted the camp inmates to loot the houses and buildings. Much of the town of Bergen was set on fire even though none of the residents in Bergen was responsible for any crimes committed at the Bergen-Belsen Camp.[21]
Germany passed laws soon after the publication of Stäglich’s book making it a felony to dispute any aspect of the Holocaust story. Similar laws were eventually passed in the following countries: Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Czech Republic, France, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain, Switzerland and the European Union.[16] The obvious question is: What kind of historical truth needs criminal sanctions to protect it? The Holocaust story would not need criminal sanctions to protect it if it was historically accurate.
This witness was recently in the news because researchers have managed to read a letter he supposedly buried in Birkenau where he suposedly worked as a member of a Sonderkommando (see this paper). According to the book, Nadjari wrote two manuscripts (A and B). Manuscript A was written in 1944 and is the aforementioned letter. Only a short paragraph is reproduced in the book, in which the author states that the Nadjari family has been murdered by the Germans and now he expects to die. No details are given.
Naturally, part of the crosstalk when the book was released led into the validity of comparisons with the concentration camp systems in Europe, principally in Nazi Germany. And we should say straight off that such comparisons are totally inappropriate in terms of the results: the death rate among the Japanese internees was on the order of 1.5%, the vast majority of these being “natural” deaths, while births over deaths continued at a rate of about 3.5:1. This has to be contrasted to a situation in which hundreds of thousands of people lost their lives in the Nazi German camp system, to say nothing of the depredations of Nazism further on in Eastern Europe.
Continuing in his quest, the aggrieved victim of reputational terrorism might even proceed from broad-spectrum Holocaust revisionism to a review of the uses various Jewish organizations, the state of Israel foremost among these, make of the episode, and discover an entire new world of atrocities being justified and obscured by the traditions of the long-cultivated Holocaust legend, and take up public opposition to these programs as well. In extreme cases, it is readily imaginable that the desire for revenge could even lead, in a case like that hypothesized, to anti-Semitism, in which the victim is likely still to be committing no moral offense any worse than the one that was originally committed against him.
Deir Yassin was not the only massacre, nor was it the largest. But it is the prime symbol of Palestinian suffering and displacement. Because there is no memorial at the scene, because Deir Yassin is not taught in Israeli schools, because Deir Yassin is deliberately flushed down the memory hole of Jews in Israel and in the Diaspora, Deir Yassin has become a symbol of Jewish Denial or Nakba Denial, as Ilan Pappé would say. Nakba Denial is no less painful to Palestinians than is Holocaust Denial to Jews.
"Your manuscript is both good and original. But the part that is good is not original, and the part that is original is not good." This remark, commonly attributed to Samuel Johnson, might well be applied to the bloggers' work. Loosely speaking, one might call its earlier chapters “good”, while its latter chapters could qualify as “original”. Although the term “good” is much too generous, the early chapters are at least fairly extensively sourced, and grounded in a large literature. The bloggers’ work begins outside the Reinhardt camps with broad generalities, then moves inside the camps to address more specific concerns. In the early chapters, in particular those dealing with National Socialist Jewish policy in general and shootings in the occupied eastern territories in particular, they are able to draw on an extensive secondary literature. While the extensive material derived from the secondary literature does give these chapters a certain weight, they have little to offer the reader already familiar with recent overviews such as Christopher Browning's The Origins of the Final Solution or Peter Longerich's Holocaust – little, that is, aside from a large trove of errors and misinterpretations.
Nettled by the persuasive arguments and warnings of free-speech advocates, the irrepressible Board of Jewish Deputies nevertheless vowed to continue to pressure the British government to outlaw “Holocaust denial.”
The Einsatzgruppen carrying out their activities in the USSR had the job of  protecting the advancing army’s rear, particularly due to the presence of snipers and partisans who succeeded in killing numerous German soldiers and perpetrating sabotage. Never did the Einsatzgruppen receive an order to execute Jews as such. Jews could be shot for acts of either terrorism or sabotage or, as hostages in retaliation either for such acts or for some similar reason. The assertions to the contrary and the mental constructions made around a supposed “Kommissar Befehl” or the confession of SS General Otto Ohlendorf at Nuremberg are  on the order of myth. In general, “despite the most erudite research” (François Furet, speaking at the end of a conference at the Sorbonne on July 2, 1982), never has such an order been found. Even the most indulgent or subservient historians have had to admit this; see particularly, for example, regarding the Einsatzgruppen, Helmut Krausnick and Hans-Heinrich Wilhelm in Die Truppe des Weltanschauungskrieges / Die Einsatzgruppen des Sicherheitspolizei und des SD, Stuttgart, Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, 1981, p. 634; also, Yaacov Lozowick in “Rollbahn: The Early Activities of Einsatzgruppe C,” Holocaust and Genocide Studies, Oxford, 1987, Vol. 2, p. 221-241.
Rassinier’s groundbreaking work was virtually ignored by mainstream historians in France and suppressed for decades, but On December 29, 1978 and on January 16, 1979, Robert Faurisson, a professor of classical literature and an expert in textual analysis, published two articles in Le Monde openly proclaiming his rejection of homicidal gas chambers at Nazi concentration camps.[19] French Jews branded Faurisson’s essay, which relied upon original wartime documents, as offensively provocative and responded angrily to his revisionist conclusions.
Auschwitz had crematoria, and typhus epidemics that made them necessary, while Oak Ridge seems to have had neither of these if only because its “sponsors” retained political power in the aftermath of the war. There are, as usual, many reasons for this difference. Oak Ridge had its pick of a motivated, and mobilized, population of over 100 million, while Auschwitz was literally a dumping ground for millions of “undesirables” expelled from the places where they had been living—it had no choice as to the ages, education levels, ethnicities, or even freedom from disease of its inductees. The famous “selections” that were performed at Auschwitz after inmates had arrived, were made before anyone even got on the trains going to Oak Ridge.
Halifax also delivered a cleverly hypocritical speech to the House of Lords on the evening of September 1, 1939. Halifax claimed that the best proof of the British will to peace was to have Chamberlain, the great appeasement leader, carry Great Britain into war. Halifax concealed the fact that he had taken over the direction of British foreign policy from Chamberlain in October 1938, and that Great Britain would probably not be moving into war had this not happened. He assured his audience that Hitler, before the bar of history, would have to assume full responsibility for starting the war. Halifax insisted that the English conscience was clear, and that, in looking back, he did not wish to change a thing as far as British policy was concerned.[48]
The research carried out by this author has shown that the machine was nothing but a normal ball mill which had been manufacted around 1890 by Grusonwerk, Magdeburg. For several reasons (a modification of the frame, damage sustained during the war and finally a “reconstruction” at the museum) it is not possible to determine exactly which of the several Gruson models the mill was, but we can state with certainty that it was not a fiendish invention of the “German fascists.” The available evidence suggests that the Soviet story of the “bone mill” is a pure fabrication. Nothing proves that the mill was found at the Yanov camp after its liberation in July 1944. What purpose the machine served during the war cannot be determined with certainty. Our best guess is that it was used to produce finely ground road stone and that it was probably stationed in a quarry or a road bulding yard.
We won’t bother proving this here, for one because the next documentary slated for production – Questioning the Holocaust: Why We Believed, Part 2 – will deal with all these issues in depth, and also because we’ve taken up too much of your time already.
"Josef Kramer, Belsen's commandant, had come out to meet the British troops and asked for their help. Many British officers thereafter believed that Kramer, who had been trained at Auschwitz, had done his best to help the inmates." [71]
The new category contains 29 letters, which had been extracted from twelve of their folders. These were documents where “conclusive evidential grounds exist” to challenge their authenticity. They had been “illegally placed within existing original record series by unscrupulous and criminal elements.” This conclusion had been scientifically adduced by experts in the field of forensic sciences. Such forgeries had been “never encountered before in the history of the National Archives.” This was strong language indeed.
Technical questions as to how such a mass murder was possible are beside the point. It was technically possible since it happened. Acceptance of this fact is a sine qua non for any enquiry into this subject matter. It was incumbent upon us to re-state this truth. There is not, and there cannot be, any debate about the existence of the gas chambers.
In summary, Solzhenitsyn, Orwell and Morgan make the same point: art (including literature) is an amazingly strong ally of those who fight for intellectual freedom. For this reason I believe that Holocaust revisionism will eventually win the day, no matter what vicissitudes occur on the way. Today, as I finish this article (11 January), the news has reached us of the French government-led banning of the comedy show in Nantes of the comedian M’Bala M’Bala Dieudonne. I predict that this will prove a pyrrhic victory for the suppressors. When a national government has to utilize the highest administrative court to close down a comedian's show, then “something is very rotten in the state” indeed – and the odor will awaken more and more people.
More precisely this gives a total of 105,050 deportees. The figure of 350 deportees to “Various Concentration Camps” appears to be in error, since Hilberg elsewhere states that a total of 680 Dutch Jews were deported to Buchenwald in the period of February-June 1941.[22] The number of Dutch deportees to Auschwitz and Sobibór are given more exactly by Jules Schelvis as 60,185 and 34,313 respectively.[23] The number of Jews deported from the Netherlands therefore would appear to be closer to 106,000, but Schelvis, whose figures are generally more exact than those of Hilberg’s, writes that a total of 102,993 Jews were deported from the Netherlands in 102 transports, “excluding the 2,000 or so who were arrested in Belgium and France”.[24]  Hilberg gives the number of surviving deportees as 1 for Mauthausen, 19 for Sobibór, “over 1,000” for Auschwitz, and “over 4,000” for Theresienstadt and Bergen-Belsen combined;[25] whereas the always more exact Schelvis gives the number of Auschwitz survivors as 1,052, the number of Sobibór survivors as 18 and the number of Theresienstadt and Bergen-Belsen survivors as 4,030.[26] Thus of the 105,000 deportees, counting the Dutch Jews arrested outside of their country) all but 5,100 are alleged to have perished during the war. Hilberg adds that “about 2,000” Dutch Jews “were killed, committed suicide or died of privation inside the country, particularly in the transit camps Vught and Westerbork.”[27] Moreover, “up to 5,000 may have fled or emigrated, and the excess of deaths over births during the occupation was also a few thousand”, whereas the number of Jews remaining in the Netherlands at the end of the deportations is given as in total 20,000 – 22,000.[28] A Dutch Government Report issued on 16 October 1945 states the number of remaining Dutch Jews to be 23,000.[29] Adding the above figures together we get the following summary:
Crematoriums II and III had 15 muffles each (five triple-muffle furnaces), capable of cremating 15 bodies per hour. So in theory they could not cremate more than 300-400 bodies a day. We could push this to 500 or more and still it would be very far from 2,500. So how was this done? Nadjari claims they burned three bodies in 30 minutes in each muffle, with one of the bodies being always female as the burning was thus faster. Every six hours they removed the ashes (p. 64). Except for the fact that all this is impossible, even by his description and allowing around one hour for cleaning every six hours, they could cremate about 1,800 bodies, not 2,500 and certainly not 3,000.
No, no. Not much. Not much. It was said that the Jews who hadn’t been deported had been made to work. That was what the [Nazis] had publicly told the people. What was done there, nobody knew. But we did indeed see how concentration camp prisoners had been forced to work, such as, for example, the Hiwis. These were Russians, White Russians, or Ukrainians, who had to carry out all sorts of functions. They had to work. They had to load and unload and perform all the menial tasks that needed to be done anywhere in the Wehrmacht, in any unit.
- Chamber IV has a window which the victims would have smashed immediately (the blue stains prove that this window existed at the time in question);
The preface of Dönitz at Nuremberg was written by William L. Hart, Justice of the Supreme Court of Ohio, who concluded by stating, “there was no legal justification for the trial, conviction or sentence of the so-called ‘war criminals’ by the Nuremberg Tribunal. We have set a bad precedent. It should not be followed in the future.”[129] There followed opinions against the Nuremberg Trials by hundreds of legal, diplomatic, political and military authorities throughout the world, such as Dwight Eisenhower’s lawyer brother Edgar and in particular by many naval commanders from the Allied states. Hence, the book remains a valuable corpus of authoritative opinions against the mentality of revenge that forms the essence of victories after an increasing number of globalist wars that have resulted in the barbaric treatment of the defeated leaders of Serbia, Iraq, Libya and an eye to vengeance against Syria’s Assad, et al.
[p. 5] There were 2 facilities with 5 double furnaces at Auschwitz
What are the lessons of the Tesch trial? The defendants’ innocence of the charge brought against them is obvious, as is the absurdity of Emil Sehm’s story which drove the entire investigation and trial. The trial is more enlightening as a window into how War Crimes investigations operated: into the incompetence and dishonesty, the manipulation of documents, the intimidation of witnesses, the suppression of contradictions. Only with this awareness will it be possible to adequately assess the evidence gathered in post-war trials, rather than using it as ammunition to bolster a set of predetermined conclusions.
British science historian Dr. Nicholas Kollerstrom also refuted the Kraków Institute of Forensic Research report, as succinctly summarized by the retired professor of the philosophy of science Dr. James H. Fetzer:[9]
Professor Browning also admitted that even the memoirs of Adolf Eichmann contain “calculated lies for legal defense.”[110] This would not be the first time that a German officer in a post-war statement falsely claimed that there was a Nazi policy to exterminate Jews in order to create a defense at his upcoming trial. Browning’s colleague, Final Solution Historian Ian Kershaw, pointed this out in his latest book.
This is precisely the Kafkaesque situation in which I found myself at the end of 2005 after having been abruptly and violently separated from my wife and child by U.S. Immigration authorities in Chicago,[1] deported to Germany and immediately thrown into jail to await trial, on account of my book Lectures on the Holocaust, which I had published in the summer of 2005, and for Web pages promoting this and other similar books. This was no plot against me personally, though, because this is the same situation everyone faces who clashes with Germany’s law penalizing the “denial of the Holocaust.” The situation is similar in many other nations, most of them in Europe.
The figure of 3,000 persons packed into the alleged gas chamber of Krema III happens to correspond to something in the pseudo-memoir of Rudolf Höss (pp. 110, 143), written while in Polish Communist captivity after the war. It says that Krema II (which is a mirror-image of Krema III and of the same size) could easily accommodate 2,000, but could potentially hold 3,000.
A consistent theme, evidently goal, of the prosecutions at Nuremberg, Dachau and elsewhere seems to have been to implicate Himmler, Hitler, and other very-senior Nazis in various programs of atrocity, in particular genocides against Jews and other targeted racial groups. Höss implicates Himmler rather unconvincingly in his memoirs as having ordered him to exterminate concentration-camp inmates systematically and in large numbers, and through hearsay (quoting Himmler’s spoken words), he attempts to implicate Hitler as the source of the orders. And Höss also swung from a rope, though perhaps somewhat later than he might have had he not been quite so prolific while being held in a Polish prison.
[xxiv] Tiedemann, Herbert, “Babi Yar: Critical Questions and Comments,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 523.
Thus, between the 1960s and late 1990s, the Dachau Museum had a sign displayed inside the Dachau gas chamber stating:
In 1983 the anti-Nazi book Legions of Death by Rupert Butler stated that Jewish Sgt. Bernard Clarke and other British officers tortured Rudolf Höss into making his confession. The torture of Höss was exceptionally brutal. Neither Bernard Clarke nor Rupert Butler finds anything wrong or immoral in Höss’s torture. Neither of them seems to understand the importance of their revelations. Bernard Clarke and Rupert Butler prove that Höss’s testimony at Nuremberg was obtained by torture, and is therefore not credible evidence in establishing a program of German genocide against European Jewry.[14]
Carroll’s exaggerations and loose talk about Dr. Traub play well to a receptive but otherwise ill-informed public schooled on Holocaust lore. Such a public is quick to believe anything sinister and evil about NS Germany; a regime that could commit genocide could certainly have invented Lyme Disease. A careful reader, however, must become suspicious of the balance of the story that he tells.
“That whole summer the crematorium was going day and night. During the day it was all smoke and at night you could see flames coming up. You could really see it. You could see it from miles away. In Birkenau I stayed with my mother the whole time in a big barracks, sleeping on boards with three pieces of straw or whatever that were infested with lice and fleas. I wouldn’t be alive if not for my mother. The crematorium was going and the flames were coming out. At night you would see it red. During the day it was black because of the smoke. There were little pieces, chips of bone, flying all over the place.” (p. 88)
Finally, Sevillias offers some interesting information regarding the alleged Sonderkommando revolt (which he places on October 6). According to the orthodox narrative,[3] on October 7, 1944, 300 members of the Sonderkommando in Birkenau slated to be put on a transport – which they thought was equivalent to their impending execution – planned a mass escape. This plan, however, was betrayed by another inmate, so a premature, spontaneous revolt broke out instead, during which Sonderkommando members at Crematorium IV attacked their SS guards with hammers, axes and stones. They set Crematorium IV ablaze and threw a few self-made grenades at the arriving SS reinforcement. The Sonderkommando members of Crematorium II joined the uprising, while the crews of the other crematoria remained inactive. Some of the insurgents managed to reach the grove behind Crematorium IV, where most of them were killed in the ensuing fight against SS guards. A few escaped, but most of them were later captured. Three SS men were killed in this revolt.
The number of 2.9-million Jewish claimants understates the number of Jews who survived World War II because as of 1985 Jews in Poland, the Soviet Union, Hungary, Romania and Czechoslovakia were not permitted by their governments to apply for or receive BEG restitution. Also, some European Jews who survived World War II died before the German BEG restitution law was enacted in 1953. The Atlanta Journal and Constitution newspaper estimated that only half of the Jewish “Holocaust survivors” around the world in 1985 had received restitution under the BEG.[25] If this 50% estimate is accurate, it would mean that approximately 5.8 million European Jews survived German persecution during World War II. Such a large number of surviving Jews is not consistent with a German program of genocide against European Jewry, per Mrs. Finkelstein’s query quoted above.
“The next few pages contain a brief summary of Pressac’s extensive findings. Those who have found the deniers’ claims about gas chambers the least bit troubling should have their doubts set aside. Those who have never been persuaded in the least by this assault on the truth will find the documents overwhelming proof of the degree to which the deniers distort history and lie about the evidence.”
“All of the remaining negationist gurus combine a deep and abiding ignorance of the overwhelming majority of recent Holocaust research with ad hominem attacks on historians and an obsessive ‘refutational’ style aimed at real or hallucinated debate partners, something which also marks out other ‘revisionist’ schools of history writing. Yet these arguments are largely howled into the void, since the response to MGK’s work has been a deafening silence from academics. This in turn has led MGK to believe they are really onto something, in a classic illustration of the topsy-turvy circular logic of fringe pseudoscholars, since the lack of response from academics must mean that historians cannot refute the negationist gurus.” (p. 43)
"During March 1945 a devilish plan was conceived by the SS. They intended to build, partly underground, a large barracks, which they admitted was to be a "gas chamber". The plan was ready, the builders were ordered, the time estimated for completion was four or five weeks. We knew that the British had reached the Rhine, and those of us who knew also of the latest SS plan for our extermination feverishly counted the days as the front line approached. Which would reach us first? We heard the distant thunder of the guns. Would they arrive before the gas?"[66 ]
If, for some strange reason, they felt compelled to ‘gas’ the Jews, they had options there too. As Fritz Berg points out, there were large, train-sized “gas chambers” in existence; these were used to fumigate train-carloads of bedding, clothing, and personal effects with deadly cyanide gas.[36] Typhus, as we know, was a huge problem during wartime, and the Germans took many precautions. Rather than fumigate clothing, however, the Nazis simply could have processed carloads of Jews. They could have killed hundreds in minutes, with no risk to themselves. And the dead bodies would have been conveniently packed up, ready to head off for disposal.
Ash was likewise critical of French-Jewish philosopher Bernard-Henri Levi, whom he charged with having gone “through some impressive intellectual contortions to explain why he opposed any laws restricting criticism of religion but supported those on Holocaust denial. It was one thing, he argued, to question a religious belief, quite another to deny a historical fact. But this won’t wash. Historical facts are established precisely by their being disputed and tested against the evidence. Without the process of contention – up to and including the revisionist extreme of outright denial – we would never discover which facts are truly hard…Only when we are prepared to allow our own most sacred cows to be poked in the eye can we credibly demand that Islamists, Turks and others do the same. This is a time not for erecting taboos but for dismantling them. We must practice what we preach.”[29]
What would you do if someone approached you and, in a peaceful and maybe even scholarly and factual way, said something about Auschwitz that you truly do not wish to hear? That is almost a mere rhetorical question in a society in which an almost monolithic consensus exists as to what must be done to any such taboo-breaking historical dissident.
Then there is the documentary and testimonial evidence showing that transports of Jewish skilled workers were specifically requested by various authorities and organizations, in particular Organisation Todt and affiliated enterprises (e.g. Baltöl). Most likely the personnel in the transit camps and Globocnik’s Reinhardt organization were focused on the practical handling of the operation. As for the decisionmaking and overall logistics, the correspondence of Kube and Lohse suggests that it was far from ideally organized and moreover carried out with little cognizance on the part of the local civilian administrations. Hopefully future research will shed more light on this issue.
Reading Samuel Crowell's, The Gas Chamber of Sherlock Holmes is a little like stumbling across the first perfectly sane inmate in an insane asylum years after being (wrongly) committed. Coming after prolonged inundation in clashing dogmas, the dispassionate use of evidence and logic to approach a sensible conclusion comes as a jolting but thoroughly pleasant novelty. And Crowell's modesty in stating that conclusion tentatively, knowing that genuinely rational inquiry will and should be superseded by later efforts, is an equally refreshing departure from polemical norms.
Other frauds perpetrated on an unsuspecting public include Jerzy Kosinski’s The Painted Bird, a bestseller of the 1960s also lauded by Wiesel;16 Fragments, by Binjamin Wilkomirski, which won the Jewish National Book Award (not bad for a Gentile!);17 and Angel at the Fence by Herman Rosenblat, which was hailed by Oprah Winfrey as “the single greatest love story in 22 years of doing this show.”18 It all goes to show how uncritically Holocaust stories are accepted out of respect for the real victims, except by callous souls who find humor in human credulity (moi?).
Israel abducted Eichmann in Argentina in 1960, after Eichmann had been living there since the war, and secretly spirited him to Israel, where Israel proudly proclaimed its violation of Argentina’s sovereignty, and proceeded to put on a show “trial” of this early Holocaust defendant, which concluded with his being sentenced to death, and duly hanged in 1961. While Israel’s Gestapo, the Mossad, is known to have murdered a good number of people outside Israel, and Israel is known to have extradited a comparable number of unfortunates for crimes such as those of which Eichmann was accused, Eichmann’s would appear to be the only case of covert “extradition” performed by the Mossad without the host country’s knowledge or permission.
(3) Whoever publicly or in a meeting approves of, denies or belittles an act committed under the rule of National Socialism of the type indicated in Section 6 Subsection (1) of the Code of Crimes against International Law [=Acts of Genocide], in a manner capable of disturbing the public peace shall be punished […]
DEFENSE: I would like to make a statement to the court relative to the defendants Schoepp and Gretsch. There has been no evidence against either of these men, either by the prosecution or by any witness for the defense. Therefore, they have nothing that they have to defend. But they ask me to say to the court that they throw themselves on the court, if there are any questions that any member of the court would like to ask them. They have nothing to hide, and it would be up to the court to ask them any questions they might have.
This is a slightly adapted extract of the upcoming book The Chemistry of Auschwitz: The Technology and Toxicology of Zyklon B and the Gas Chambers – A Crime-Scene Investigation by Germar Rudolf (all color print, 442 pp. 6"×9"). The book is to be released in early March 2017. Pre-publication orders can already be placed here.
Oral Testimonies of the Jews from Thessaloniki about the Holocaust. What’s this you ask? This is the book we are going to focus on this time. As survivor testimonies are very important for the official storyline, it’s clear that the more of them we examine, the closer we get to the truth. Testimonies are also a big hurdle for many people to even consider taking a look at Holocaust revisionism, as they tend to think that so many survivors cannot possibly be lying. They can’t be blamed for that, and indeed, most of the survivors are certainly not lying. The problem is that very few people have actually read a single testimony, and those that have done so, did not do it carefully. So, let’s get down to it.
In March 2009, I learned that David Irving had given advice to a fellow “Holocaust denier,” Bishop Richard Williamson, and I received a message from an irate French lady who castigated Irving’s statements about Treblinka. On 2 April, I sent Irving a message, asking him the following four questions:
In 1944, a shortwave delousing device was also introduced at Auschwitz (Kurzwellen-Entlausung; see Nowak 1998). These innovations undoubtedly reduced the need for Zyklon B.
Many people have criticized Niemöller for his German patriotism; other people have criticized him for his confession, which was used by Allied propagandists to demonize Germans. In regard to his famous confession, Niemöller did not realize that he had been deceived by the Allies concerning the so-called Holocaust and the origins of World War II. Like most Germans, Niemöller was a victim of the supreme Allied atrocity campaign, the one designed to induce guilt in Germans for the acts, actual, alleged, and mischaracterized, of their state before and during the war.[33]
Adolf Otto Eichmann was an SS Lieutenant-Colonel and Head of the Jewish Office of the Gestapo during the Second World War. According to the traditional Holocaust story, he is said to have a played a seminal role in the “Final Solution,” the alleged National Socialist plan to exterminate the Jews of Europe. At the end of the war he escaped to Argentina, where he was captured by Israeli agents in May 1960. He was transported to Israel, subjected to a show "trial," and then executed on May 31, 1962. The testimonies of the former commandant of Auschwitz, Rudolf Höss, along with the memoirs of Eichmann are an important portion of the evidence for the traditional view of the Holocaust. For those who have transformed the Holocaust into a sacred religion, Adolf Eichmann has remained one of the most enduring symbols of Holocaust evil.[12]
He incidentally also remarks on those infamous ‘flaming chimneys’ of Elie Wiesel: “Whenever the crematoriums were being operated at night, the sky above them would take on a reddish brown color” (p. 76). Perhaps some glowing ash reflected off the smoke, causing a bit of illumination—a situation that Wiesel records thusly: “we saw that flames were gushing out of a tall chimney into the black sky.” So perhaps there was a bit of truth behind Wiesel’s exaggerations.
“On the whole, the evidence submitted for the ‘gas vans’ cannot be accorded any evidential value, and the claim that Germans had murdered thousands of human beings in ‘gas vans’ must be regarded strictly as rumor.”
However, the Zionists and the British War Cabinet had reached a backroom deal. The war was going badly for the Allies, and the only hope was to persuade the USA to enter. On the other hand, the Zionists, who had placed their hopes in the kaiser and the Ottoman sultan for securing Palestine, had been rebuffed. Sultan Abdul Hamid had responded to Zionist leader Theodor Herzl that a Jewish state in Palestine was not agreeable, as his people had “fought for this land and fertilized it with their blood… let the Jews keep their millions.”[1] Zionist leaders approached the kaiser, who was then trying to align with Turkey, the Zionists claiming that a Jewish state in Palestine would become an outpost of German culture.[2] The kaiser did not acquiesce, and neither did the czar.[3] The initial response from Britain to Herzl, by Colonial Secretary Joseph Chamberlain, was to support a Jewish state in Kenya.[4]
“Almost every day there were new arrivals, thousands. The percentage of those who entered the camp was about the same on every transport, about 200 to 500 persons at most, men and women together. The rest of the thousands went directly to the gas chambers.” (p. 141)
Two final omissions: The six death camps, which together account for around 50% of alleged Jewish deaths, play an absolutely minimal role here. Auschwitz gets its obligatory scattering of references, but the other camps are near invisible. Belzec and Sobibor are mentioned on a dozen pages or so; Treblinka, Majdanek and Chelmno get about half that. At a minimum, one would hope for updated death figures for each of these camps—but such figures are not to be found.[6] Any details offered on the camps are merely perfunctory, a repetition of standard accounts that one has been reading for years. Even granted that the 'extermination phase' was not the focus of the book, it's hard to understand how any work purporting to be "the standard account" of the Holocaust can spend such little time on those notorious camps.
It is not my purpose here to argue the merits or otherwise of ‘Holocaust Revisionism’ as some call it, or the (much) less-than-scholarly ‘Holocaust Denial’ as it is called by others, but rather to question what has been termed ‘relativism’ which Lipstadt et al apply to aspects of historical revisionism not to their liking, while applying ‘relativism’ as a technique of their own.
Michael Musmanno, the presiding judge, provided the defendants with wide latitude in their presentation of evidence in the Einsatzgruppen trial. However, Ferencz writes that Musmanno was convinced early on of the defendants’ guilt[24]:
Professor van Pelt, along with his fellow Holocaust historian Deborah Dwork, concede that the contemporary Auschwitz concentration camp tourist site contains outright falsifications with a controlled ideological message, which mislead visitors.[15] This should raise this question in the reader’s mind: how much of the Auschwitz extermination story is politically inspired falsehood?
On page one, Lipstadt opines that “Holocaust denial is” an “antisemitic ideology” rather than “responsible historiography.” It is a “purely ideological exercise,” and the revisionists merely appear to be “engaged in a genuine scholarly effort when, of course, they are not” (p. 2). Of course. Proof offered? None.
The British Intelligence Service had every reason to consider the decoded radio messages of the SS the most reliable source of information on events in Auschwitz. In view of the available data, it was, therefore, furthermore assumed that the local mortality rates amounted to approximately 2,000 per month, instead of 2,000 per day. According to the figures reported by the SS, there were exactly 52,996 Abgänge in the entire year of 1942. The unusually high number is, as stated above, attributable to the series of typhus epidemics which can easily be proven to have broken out in the late summer of 1942. If there had been 2,000 deaths per day in 1942, the number of Abgänge would have amounted to at least 730,000.
Hence, factual, evidence-based assertions about historical events can never fulfill the criterion of hate speech. Just because others develop unkind feelings when learning about them does not change this fact. If a factual statement about an event triggers emotions in people not directly involved in the event, the reason for that can usually be found in the way they have been conditioned as individuals and members of a society and a culture embedded in a certain zeitgeist. It is true that any event involving perpetrators and victims tends to trigger strong emotions, and so do statements made about such an event. It is therefore wise to choose words of empathy when dealing with such events, but no matter what we say, there is almost always someone who will be offended by what is said. If we all were required to stay silent in order to avoid offending someone – for it could lead to hate – humanity would have to relinquish its ability to speak.
The question of "war-guilt" has been endlessly agitated.[18] It can be stated with assurance that Fischer and his followers have in no way proven their case. That, for instance, Helmut Moltke, head of the German Army, like Conrad, his counterpart in Vienna, pressed for a preventive war has long been known. But both military chieftains were kept in check by their superiors. In any case, there is no evidence whatsoever that Germany in 1914 deliberately unleashed a European war which it had been preparing for years – no evidence in the diplomatic and internal political documents, in the military planning, in the activities of the intelligence agencies, or in the relations between the German and Austrian General Staffs.[19]
Ill. 2: Carlo Mattogno's Doc. 35 with his arrow allegedly pointing to smoke rising from the chimney of Crematory III at Auschwitz-Birkenau. Note the multitude of scratches on that photo running parallel to this line. The second frame shows the same location, but taken from the image of Aug. 23. Click for a larger version of the first frame.
“Thomas held that Leuchter had no expertise whatsoever in crematories and disallowed any testimony relating to crematories.” This is the entire sentence that Rotondi speciously truncated in half. Moreover, the same Judge Thomas, although far from being well-disposed toward the defense, recognized that Leuchter had the qualification of an engineer and was expert on gas chambers. And Rotondi cannot claim that he does not know Kulaszka’s book, since he mentions it in a note on page 68!
Online sources are equally deficient. Wikipedia (“Jewish Ghettos in German-occupied Poland”) provides a nice list of 272 ghettos, including “number of Jews confined” (maximum? average? final?), but no death statistics, nor even references to any. It does list the presumed destination of the ghetto residents; virtually all went to one of the six extermination camps, directly or indirectly. These will be examined shortly. The USHMM website (“Ghettos”) gives no numbers, and states only that “the Germans and their auxiliaries either shot ghetto residents in mass graves located nearby, or deported them, usually by train, to killing centers where they were murdered.” How many mass graves? Where are they? Have they been examined? No answers. Yad Vashem says simply, “Many Jews died in the ghettos.”[25]
Most likely the Łódż Jews not registered in Auschwitz were sent on to various labor camps and factories such as those in Szamotuly, Czestochowa and Gross-Rosen,[142] to internment camps or to labor sites under the supervision of military authorities. Others may have been sent to clear rubble in bombed cities, or to build the immense underground factories and facilities of which a large number were planned and constructed in the Reich during 1944.[143] The former is supported by what Patrick Montague has to tell about transports from Łódż Ghetto in 1944 that supposedly reached the Chełmno camp (emphasis added):
The fruits of Rudolf Höss’s last 401 nights are fully detailed in Carlo Mattogno’s 2017 Commandant of Auschwitz—Rudolf Höss, His Torture and His Forced Confessions, though Mattogno concludes that Höss, rotting in a prison cell and in fear for his wife and three children, is more motivated by gratification in being the center of much attention than by anything that might be called a Scheherazade Syndrome. Perhaps the two aren’t entirely different in the first place. But I think the Scheherazade Syndrome might, for such situations, take its place alongside, for example, the Stockholm Syndrome.
Like most historians, Longerich believes that Jews were gassed in homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz. He writes: “On 17 and 18 July [1942] Himmler visited Auschwitz and used the opportunity to witness a demonstration of how people were murdered in a gas chamber.”[38] Longerich further writes: “And on 21 July, for the first time, ‘Jews incapable of work’, whom Himmler had insisted be deported, were separated from the other deportees immediately on arrival and murdered in the gas chambers.”[39]
Paul Behrens, Nicholas Terry, Olaf Jensen (eds.), Holocaust and Genocide Denial: A Contextual Perspective, Routledge, New York 2017; ISBN 9781138672734
The Leuchter Report was commissioned by Zündel in the course of his 1988 trial. It reported a forensic, chemical analysis of physical material taken from the walls of buildings in Auschwitz. Revised by former Max Planck Institute chemist and historian Germar Rudolf, the Leuchter Report remains one of the most-devastating exposes of the hoax ever published, and here in a Hollywood movie its formidable potency is acknowledged—and never satisfactorily refuted in the course of the film! Although he is not mentioned, when the movie arrives at the courtroom proceedings themselves, the first day concludes with Dr. Faurisson’s signature aphorism concerning, “No Holes—No Holocaust.”
For example, take this 2012 documentary on Dachau by filmmaker Levi Mierau. After showing the gas chamber and describing how it allegedly worked, he, too, deceptively cuts to the disinfestation chamber while continuing his narration about homicidal gassing. Watch it:[27]
Oddly, this is not what has been done. Far from it. In fact, nearly the opposite of the above has occurred. The victorious Americans relied heavily on biased Jewish and Soviet sources, and on captured and abused Nazis. They conducted no forensic investigations, no autopsies, and no unearthing of mass graves. The Americans thus relied strictly on hearsay evidence to establish the all-important Jewish death toll. And they never took a single action to confirm the number. Their position seemed to be: If the Jews say 6 million, 6 million it is.
After World War II, a self-denigrating and even self-hating attitude has become very fashionable and widespread among German intellectuals as a reaction to feeling guilty about the Holocaust. This phenomenon has become worse as time progressed, although today’s generations of Germans have nothing to feel guilty about, objectively speaking.
“Should the State promote a mandatory core of basic truths about historical genocides in ways that are analogous to the social values defended by other laws against blasphemy, sedition, treason and defamation? If we accept the policy of granting such historical facts a privileged status of this kind, if only as the lesser evil, this would still provoke familiar human rights objections based on liberal objections to any form of ‘censorship’. In response, it is arguable that our participation in the public discourse of a liberal democratic State presupposes a minimal commitment to regulating truthtelling, good faith and respect for empirical evidence. In turn, such a democratic value commitment requires at least a symbolic form of legal enforcement, particularly in the extreme case represented by expressions of genocide denial oriented towards a fascistic politics.” (p. 31)
Nevertheless, the court, in rendering its opinion, stated that Stäglich had deliberately ignored evidence proving the fact of genocide against the Jews. Neither did the court stipulate precisely what evidence was supposedly ignored, nor did they offer an explanation as to why Stäglich was legally obligated to accept such evidence. Obviously, Stäglich himself was contesting the past evidentiary record, but for the court, the reality of the mainstream version of the Holocaust was beyond debate and indisputable. As will be seen, the latter is a charge frequently leveled against revisionists prosecuted for Holocaust denial. Accused of irresponsibly distorting the facts, Stäglich and his publisher were only able to escape personal punishment due to the fact that prosecutions for publishing offences could only be initiated within six months of the date of publication. Nevertheless, Stäglich’s person and reputation were assailed and censured in the press.
Ventilating the alleged homicidal gas chambers would have been prevented after the ventilation equipment had been damaged by the inmates. If Tauber’s statement was true, the Germans would have had to repair the wiring and ventilation ducts in the gas chambers on a regular basis. Tauber and the other Sonderkommandos would not have been able to clear the gas chambers of dead bodies when the ventilation system was not working. Thus, the daily mass gassings in the homicidal gas chambers could not have occurred as Tauber alleged.[12]
Q. Please answer my question now. Did he tell you what he gave as evidence before this court?
The process, though not orchestrated “from above” by some sort of vengeful divinity, worked as though so ordained. Jews, perhaps understandably, manned the vise that closed over that portion of the surviving German populace who could credibly be branded as perpetrators of either the alleged genocide or of the “aggressive war” that had so impinged upon the territorial prerogatives of the victors at the outset. All the prosecuting powers recruited from their populations those who might be: (a) in some way versed in legal procedures; and (b) able to speak German, and translate it into some other language (French, English, or Russian).
“I once saw DPs [Displaced Persons] beat an SS man and then strap him to the steel gurney of a crematorium. They slid him in the oven, turned on the heat and took him back out. Beat him again, and put him back in until he was burnt alive. I did nothing to stop it. I suppose I could have brandished my weapon or shot in the air, but I was not inclined to do so. Does that make me an accomplice to murder?”
February 17. Hermann Göring remarks in a conversation with prison psychologist G.M. Gilbert that the newsreels depicting heaps of emaciated corpses at the concentration camps could have been fabricated by anyone, and also expresses doubt in the six million figure. [8]
So … there would seem to have been a hiatus of sorts between the commission of the Nazis’ heinous deeds and the memorialization of the victims. Not all monuments to figures (specific ones or figurative ones such as “soldiers who gave their lives for the Confederate cause”) sprang up immediately after the War between the States, either. A study by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) indicates the year 1909 as the all-time peak of building and erecting Confederate monuments, or some 44 years after the end of the conflict. Forty-four years after the end of the Holocaust works out to 1989, a year during which, to be sure, many Holocaust memorials will have been opened, but a casual tally (no such study as that of the SPLC of Confederate memorials would seem as yet to have been conducted) of members of the Holocaust Association reveals, as of March 2019, members in 36 countries amounting to 244 institutions. Holocaust-memorial institutions, obviously, quite overflowed the nexus of the Holocaust itself (there are monuments in Suriname, as well as in China), while Confederate memorials are confined largely to the Southeast United States, with a few exceptions.
Remark: By itself the book’s French title gives a fair idea of the contents: instead of proof, supported by photographs of gas chambers, drawings, sketches, forensic reports on the crime weapon, the reader finds only speculations based on what is called “evidence” (éléments de preuve, “elements of proof”, not proof), and this because, we are told, those gas chambers had constituted the greatest possible secret, a “State secret”. If ever there were a “weapon of mass destruction” that deserved a well-done forensic examination, it was indeed this one. In effect, it constitutes an anomaly in the history of science for at least two reasons: it had no precedent and has had no continuation; it arose out of nothing only to return to nothingness. However, the history of science knows of no such phenomenon. In any case, by the very fact of its existence yet today in 2006, one may say that the ASSAG association has still not attained the objective for which it was founded nearly twenty-five years ago. It has still found neither proof nor even any evidence of the “Nazi gas chambers’” existence.
Defenders of the Holocaust story often state that the Einsatzgruppen reports were captured by the U.S. Army when they took control of Gestapo headquarters. However, Ferencz himself has admitted that the copies of these reports originated with copies said to have been held by the German Foreign Office in Berlin, which makes them Soviet-origin documents.[25]
“Ortsansässigen deutschen Zivilisten wird befohlen, das KZ Buchenwald zu besuchen.”
The former commandant of the concentration camp (and alleged "auxiliary extermination camp") Stutthof, Paul Werner Hoppe, is sentenced to nine years of imprisonment at a trial held in Bochum, West Germany. The former Dutch SS man Willem Sassen conducts a number of tape-recorded question-and-answer sessions with Adolf Eichmann in Buenos Aires, Argentina, supposedly for the purpose of a book on the "Final Solution". Bruno Baum's book Widerstand in Auschwitz (Resistance in Auschwitz) is published in East Berlin. Jan Sehn's documentation Konzentrationslager Auschwitz-Birkenau published in Warsaw.
“hand prints and scratches dug into cement wall of gas chamber by the victims.”
But the diary contains no such evidence. There is no justification of brutal policies; in fact, there is no mention of an order for extermination. There is no mention of gas chambers. There is no suggestion that Rosenberg was even aware of such policies. Grand conspiracists would suggest that Rosenberg was so clever that he purposefully refrained from making incriminating remarks in his personal diary – even at a time when he would have expected nothing less than a complete National Socialist victory. Several writers and psychologists like to write of the “banality” of evil, assuming that the matters appeared so trivial that there was no need to mention them. Of course, the third option is that the events never actually occurred as recorded in our history books.
It is one thing to read in a book that the Jews didn't resist being killed. It is quite another experience to see on our TV screens scenes where people are, as if at the supermarket or bank, quietly and cooperatively waiting in line to be machine-gunned, or calmly filing into a "shower" that at least some of them know to be in reality a gas chamber.
The post-1945 war crimes trials in Nuremberg are underway and the international press excitedly covers the proceedings. The tribunal itself consists of justices not from victor powers but from wartime neutrals - Switzerland, Thailand… in order to ensure fairness and justice.
It’s surprisingly easy to get the leading lights of anti-denial to admit as much one-on-one. Rick Eaton has been the senior researcher at the Simon Wiesenthal Center for thirty years. He’s as major a player in the fight against Holocaust denial as anyone on earth. Two years ago, I corresponded with him (under a pseudonym, of course… he’d never speak directly with the likes of me!) regarding the Auschwitz problem. I explained my thesis to him, that Auschwitz, having various ‘issues’ that call the credibility of extermination claims into question, should not be used to represent the Holocaust. He agreed […].
Labor leader Tony Blair, during the course of a speech given during the opening of an Anne Frank exhibition, immediately lent his support to the bill, remarking that there was a “very strong case that denial of the Holocaust should be a specific offense,” and vowed to give “active consideration as to how this should be achieved.”[6]
Desbois and his team set to work scouring the Ukrainian and Belorussian country sides for evidence of mass executions, plumbing the memories of local populations for clues. Evidence was forthcoming of what was duly dubbed a “Holocaust by Bullets” which began in 1941—that is, before the Wannsee Conference (January 1942) and before the alleged Polish and German camp exterminations.
Yahad - In Unum set out to record the testimony of surviving eyewitnesses of the exterminations. How reliable is such evidence? An article in the Scientific American of 8 January 2009 entitled, “Why Science Tells Us Not to Rely on Eyewitness Accounts” and sub-titled “Eyewitness testimony is fickle and, all too often, shockingly inaccurate,” contends:
None of the Pearl Harbor investigations was able to prove definitively that the Roosevelt Administration knew beforehand of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. This is because key evidence began to be concealed as early as December 11, 1941. On this date Rear Adm. Leigh Noyes, the Navy’s director of communications, consigned the pre-Pearl Harbor Japanese military and diplomatic intercepts and the relevant directives to Navy vaults. In August 1945, the Navy blocked public access to the pre-Pearl Harbor intercepts by classifying the documents TOP SECRET. When the congressional investigation into the Pearl Harbor attack began on November 15, 1945, only diplomatic messages were released. None of the details of the interception, decoding, or dissemination of the pre-Pearl Harbor naval messages was introduced into evidence.[8]
Actually, these are clothes airing outside the Dachau disinfestation chambers. The narrator merely claims that this is the clothing of homicidal gas chamber victims. Then they deceptively cut to the shower room door, making the viewer believe they are the same door; the one with the obvious written gas warnings on it and the supposed gas chamber, disguised as a shower room, designed to trick those entering.
Thus, if 100 witnesses and 100 confessions state that the moon is made of green cheese or that 870,000 corpses can be burned within a few months without fuel and without leaving traces, both assertions being of a similar intellectual quality, then we have to conclude—in light of all the forensic evidence—that the witnesses and the defendants are wrong. Like it or not![30]
Now to the second point. It means that the answers to research questions can be determined exclusively by  verifiable evidence, not by authority figures, not by social taboos, by political correctness, or even by penal law. So, when we are doing any scholarly activity, both the starting point and the end point of that activity – the initial question or assumption and the final conclusion – ought to be completely free of external constrictions. That’s at least the ideal situation. Of course, scientists are only human, and so they bend and buckle occasionally, giving way to all kinds of pressure, but that aspect of their work is what actually tarnishes their work.
No documentary evidence confirming the allegation that child prisoners served as involuntary blood donors has ever been found, and the claims presented in the Soviet press that 7,000 children perished at Salaspils are viewed as absurd by contemporary Latvian historians.[140] This of course does not preclude that child inmates liberated from the camp were placed in Bolduri and examined by Soviet physicians.
Gerald Gardiner, later to become Lord Chancellor of Great Britain, had been a member of a volunteer ambulance unit working with concentration camp survivors. Gardiner stated with regard to the expellee trains arriving in the late summer and autumn of 1945 from the Recovered Territories, “The removal of the dead in carts from the railway stations was a grim reminder of what I saw in early days in Belsen.”[42]
Guilt pervades Germany’s people as a result of the Allied propaganda campaign. German guilt is so powerful that it has caused the German government to pay enormous reparations and offer humble apologies to the Allies, despite the atrocities committed by the Allies against the German people. Millions of German expellees have paid reparations to survivors of the German concentration camps even though these German expellees had their land and personal possessions stolen from them. German schoolchildren are repeatedly taught about crimes committed by National Socialist Germany, with virtually nothing ever taught about the crimes committed against their ancestors after the war.[21]
Regardless of how it will be met among active revisionists, I am sure that Cole’s argument will seem positively baffling to the average reader who has been groomed to regard Auschwitz as synecdoche for the canonical Holocaust story. While it may be understood that Cole is correct when he points out that “Auschwitz was not the totality of the Holocaust,” ordinary readers who come to Republican Party Animal with the usual engrained preconceptions will be hard-pressed to digest his “gas in the gaps” counter-narrative. I imagine it will be a bit like being told that yes, there was a Battle of the Alamo, but it actually took place in North Dakota!
“[… W]hen answering a question regarding this point coming from David Irving in late 1967 (Irving thought it was a forgery) [Trevor-Roper] stated that the style and context, Bormann’s signature, and Genoud’s story about how the document came to him, and the fact that Trevor-Roper could not see the motives for Genoud to produce a forgery, all pointed towards authenticity. Trevor-Roper did admit, though, that it was difficult to penetrate the mind of the perfect forger, and that highly qualified scholars had devoted enormous amounts of time to producing forgeries for nothing more than the private satisfaction of having fooled the experts. Because of this, Trevor-Roper wrote, one could not ‘reason confidently in such a matter’. As the evidence stood, however, he was inclined to believe it was genuine. Nevertheless, in public Trevor-Roper did in fact ‘reason confidently’ with regard to Genoud’s documents; in fact he never even hinted at any doubts or problems relating to them. By May 1969, after thinking about Irving’s objections a good deal, he had become even surer about its authenticity.” (Emphasis added)
4. Out of those who served originally at the camp, approximately 2500 men Waffen SS were posted to field units and replaced by others, so that during my term of service all told 6000 Waffen SS served at one time or another at Auschwitz. After my departure this exchange of personnel continued, and I should say another 1000 men Waffen SS were replaced up to the time of the evacuation of the Camp in 1945, so that all told approximately 7000 men Waffen SS have served at one time or another at the Concentration Camp Auschwitz.
If you want to read a book dealing with that topic, for which the authors have gone through all the above steps to separate fact from fiction, then look at this 3-volume work written by the late Italian engineer Dr. Franco Deana together with Italian historian Carlo Mattogno.[44] In this massive work, the authors concluded that the actual cremation capacity of Auschwitz roughly coincided with the recorded death toll of registered inmates who died mainly of diseases, as documented in the Auschwitz death records.[45] We’ll leave it at that, because the cremation issue is too huge to be covered here in detail.
For anyone ignorant of the official storyline, this book is a good place to start. Cheap, not very long, and easy to read. For anyone already familiar with it, it would seem that historians have reached a dead end. They cannot move even one step further beyond Hilberg and Pressac. So, a good Holocaust book. But as a history book, I would say that the author’s initials may have something to suggest:
Yet a comparison and contrast of the two concentration camp systems does shed light on some factors that might help explain how these imprisonments came about. For example, economic competition between white and Japanese farmers appears to have played a large part in anti-Japanese prejudice, particularly in Central California. In the same way, Jewish dominance in many areas of post-Imperial Weimar Germany had a lot to do with making Anti-Semitism a popular ideology in Germany.
The story narrated by Venezia also contains a chronological error. That which is known in this regard, is that the activity of Crematoria II and III ceased at the beginning of December 1944: on 1 December, a female commando was created for the demolition of Crematorium III[257]; on the 8th, the head of the Zentralbauleitung, SS-Obersturmführer Werner Jothann, requested Abteilung IIIa (prisoner labor employment) for the immediate assignment of 100 prisoners for the demolition work "at the crematorium [in] Camp II" (beim Krematorium Lager II)[258], undoubtedly Crematorium II. D. Czech reports that Kommando 104b, the crematory demolition squad, consisted of 70 prisoners from the "Sonderkommando"; these men drilled holes in the walls of the crematoria and the supposed gas chambers, in which explosive charges were inserted[259]—exactly the contrary of that which is asserted by Venezia.
The first shows "men from the Sonderkommando near one of the mass graves of Crematorium V"[110]. The caption is doubly erroneous. In keeping with the standard terminology of the Holocaust, since smoke appears in the photograph, one should refer to a "cremation pit", as is commonly done. The related footnote in the book asserts that "at the end of spring 1944, there were five open-air cremation pits around Crematorium V"[111], but this is arbitrary and false.
When, to her credit, Katsoulis turns her attention to the discomfiting subject of fake Holocaust memoirs (“genuine” hoaxes all, at least for now), the limitations of her personality-centered approach become more apparent. While her discussion of three indisputable fakers – Benjamin Wilkomirski, Misha Levy Defonseca, and Herman Rosenblat (curiously, the case if Jerzey Kosinski goes unmentioned) – comes laced with obligatory expressions of naval-gazing indignation that any sane person could concoct tales appropriating the “massively emotive signifier of Nazism,” it should be obvious to anyone paying attention that the horrorshow backdrop of established Holocaust historiography provides fertile ground for the confabulations, fantasies, and lurid tales that, from the beginning, have attached. The motifs are well-established, the thematic terrain arable, and the Manichean forces at the center of the bleak narrative set the perfect template for direful meditation and moral edification, however sentimental or rarefied the phrasing. And of course, there must be an audience, clamoring for more. It really is no coincidence that Katsoulis’ star satanic abuse prevaricator – one Laurel Rose Wilson, a.k.a. “Laura Grabowski” – doubled-teamed as an Auschwitz survivor (and Mengele torture subject, no less) and even corresponded with dour old Wilkomirski, her fantasy chum from darker days.
In order to better understand this most critical aspect of the Holocaust story, we need some background information. Prior to and during the war, the National Socialists created a large network of ad hoc prisons—concentration camps—throughout the Reich. By 1943 there were some 20 major camps of 25,000 or more inmates, and at least 65 ancillary camps with around 1,500 people each.[37] Many assume that all these were “death camps,” that is, places of mass murder. But this is not so. On the orthodox view, only six camps were dedicated to the murder of the Jews: Auschwitz, Treblinka, Belzec, Sobibor, Majdanek, and Chelmno.
Dr. Josef Mengele entered service at Auschwitz on 30 May 1943. His direct superior, SS-Standortarzt (garrison doctor) Dr. Eduard Wirths, appointed him Lagerarzt (camp doctor) at the so-called “Zigeunerfamilienlager” (gypsy family camp), Sector BIIe of Birkenau.[2]
Rajchman wrote that exhaust gas from a Diesel engine was piped into the gas chambers.[5] However, Austrian engineer Walter Lüftl and American engineer Friedrich Paul Berg have both documented that exhaust from Diesel engines could not have been used for mass executions at Treblinka. Lüftl concludes in his report that the stories of gas chambers with Diesel engines and gas vans at places such as Treblinka can only be disinformation.[6]
Apparently Reynouard has labelled the current understanding of “the Holocaust” as “a myth” and denied that the Nazis used gas chambers to execute prisoners. In short, he has offered a different “assessment of the nature and extent of German mistreatment of Jews between 1933 and 1945;” but to say that does not automatically prove that he has done wrong.
It is any wonder that former German soldiers who served at Sobibor “confessed” that there were “gas chambers” at the camp? From a legal standpoint they had no choice but to give credence to this legend. The tribunals that these German military men and National Socialist officials faced were committed to the dictum that there was a Nazi plan to exterminate the Jews, and it was done with the use of “gas chambers.” It was out of the question for them to contest this in court, so they simply built their defense strategies accordingly. In a word, it was simply in their best legal interests to simply “admit” the “truth” of the orthodox Jewish extermination story and then build their defense strategy around it—thus falsifying the historical record along the way.
The “etched in stone fact”—that four million people were murdered at Auschwitz—has been exposed for the intelligently designed lie that it was. Nevertheless, the current Polish government provides more than $3.6 million a year to maintain Auschwitz concentration camp as a memorial site of the Holocaust.[73] Does the Polish leadership do this solely because the Jewish lobby wants them to do this? The answer is no.
Thompson vigorously defended his court martial, receiving widespread publicity especially from the American Labor Party’s newspaper The National Guardian, which the FBI described as “Stalinist,”[20] with support from the American Civil Liberties Union. The Guardian contended that there had been widespread wire tapping and pressuring of witnesses. Thompson insisted on, and was granted, a personal hearing before Secretary of the Navy Francis Matthews in October 1950. The guilty verdict of the court martial was upheld. Thompson wrote to Matthews that he had acted contrary to his oath of office, had conspired to oust Thompson from the Navy for political reasons, and that remedies would be sought through civil action.[21] In a two-hour interview with Thompson and his attorney, Secretary Matthews did acknowledge that there were “serious errors” in the court martial.[22] An FBI report outlining his naval career commented that a Navy doctor had examined him in 1948, and found him to be physically and mentally normal, and “never has he shown evidence of a psychopathic personality.”[23] Among Thompson’s associations in the Marines was John E. Rudder, Second Lieutenant and the “only Negro officer stationed at Quantico.” “Both advocated the abolishment of segregation.” Rudder was discharged from the Marine Corps in 1949.[24]
“Israel differs from other countries in its need to justify—to the rest of the world, and to itself—its very right to exist. Most countries need no such ideological justifications. But Israel does—because most of its Arab neighbors have not recognized it and because most of the Jews of the world prefer to live in other countries. So long as these factors remain true, Zionism will be on the defensive. As a justification for the State of Israel, the Holocaust is comparable only to the divine promise contained in the Bible: It seems to be definitive proof of the Zionist argument that Jews can live in security and with full equal rights only in their own country and that they therefore must have an autonomous and sovereign state, strong enough to defend its existence.”
The Dachau tribunal was composed of eight senior U.S. military officers with the rank of at least full colonel. The president of the court, Brig. Gen. John M. Lentz, was the former commanding general of the 3rd Army’s 87th Infantry Division.[51] These U.S. military officers with no formal legal training were not qualified to objectively review the evidence presented in the trial.
Bradley – Idea is for a CODOH [Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust] journal.  I based the layout on the old Ayn Rand journal, The Objectivist. I would like it to be the same size and quality as your Confessions Part One of the Second Enlarged edition. Glossy cover, book-like inside. I figure that we could print 1,000 copies. Maybe we could publish it 3 or 4 times per year. I would love to do this.
Opponents of the proposed reform of the Racial Discrimination Act produced many arguments to support their position. (1) It would encourage racial bigotry, ethnic prejudice and racism, and give the green light to Holocaust deniers, thus leading to an increase in racism generally. (2) It would promote social disharmony and political division. (3) It is unnecessary, since the Act has not seriously eroded free speech. (4) The Act is in fact working well to diminish racism. Most cases brought before the AHRC are successfully conciliated and do not progress to a court hearing. For example, between 1989 and 2010 out of 3788 cases referred to the Commission only 68 were referred to a tribunal and only 37 of these were successful.[83] And Commission statistics for 2012-2014 are said to show that only 27% of 1399 reports related to racial hatred.[84] (5) The Act is necessary for Australia to fulfill its international obligations. (6) The Act protects vulnerable people, those who “have little voice” (in contrast, say, to an Andrew Bolt, who has a megaphone in the form of his columns, blog and other public appearances). (7) The Act actually enhances free speech, since the pain of racist abuse often disempowers victims from participating in public debate. (8) Children and adolescents of ethnic minorities may suffer a loss of dignity and security without the protection of the Act. (9) Hate speech is dangerous, as history shows, especially the history of Nazi Germany. (10) Many Australians underestimate the damage that racism can do, because, being members of the ethnic majority (Anglo/European), they do not experience it. (11) The Act has an educative function and shows the nation what kind of behavior is or is not acceptable. (12) Repeal would jeopardize the possibility of success for the proposed referendum to recognize Australia’s indigenous people in the Constitution. (13) The draft proposal’s definitions of “intimidation” and “vilification” are unsatisfactory.[85] (14) Almost all, if not all, of the nation’s representative groups of ethnic minorities are opposed to change.[86] (15) Inciting hatred or hate speech are not forms of legitimate public discussion, so that censorship of them is not an invasion of free speech. (16) Repeal threatens the quality of life of ethnic minorities in Australia, tending to marginalize them and make social equality impossible. (17) The Act in its current form enjoys widespread community support.[87] (18) Bad speech cannot always be overcome by good speech; and the speech of the weak may often be unable to counter the speech of the strong; so protections should stay. (19) It is in our national interest to keep the law as it is, for it gives us a better image with overseas nations, including our near neighbors in South-East Asia.
A more rational explanation is this: that the Einsatzgruppen and affiliated groups shot far fewer people, and far fewer Jews, than is claimed. No one doubts that they did kill many people, perhaps thousands, of all varieties. There was a war going on, after all. No one doubts that the bodies were frequently and unceremoniously dumped in pits. But to have killed well over 1 million Jews, buried them all, dug them all up a year or two later, burned them all to ash on wood fires, sifted through all the ash, and then hidden the ashes—this is impossible. The fact that we have no evidence of even a fraction of this story is telling. It is a clear sign that our traditional historians are seriously misleading us. It would not be too much to call them outright liars. The question then is: Why?
While I was working on my expert report in 1991/92, Karl Phillip, who at that time gave me logistical support in my research efforts and who also served as a liaison between me and several lawyers involved in the defense of Holocaust “deniers,” told me that one of these lawyers had given him a photocopy of a file which was sent to witnesses during one of these trials. He gladly prepared a photocopy for me. It turned out to be the very document from which Wilhelm Stäglich had quoted in his book and which concerned the trial against the former officials of the Sachsenhausen concentration camp. I myself quoted it in my 1993 paper on “The Value of Testimony and Confessions Concerning the Holocaust.”8 However, in late summer 1993 the German police raided my home and temporarily confiscated this document. I did receive it back eventually, but my subsequent odyssey of 18 years prevented me from doing anything with it. I had simply lost track of it. Only after I returned to my family in the U.S. in 2011, did I manage to locate this copy again.
“Central to the codification of ‘Revisionism’ as the outright denial of the Holocaust was the French author Paul Rassinier, whose writings took on an implacably negationist stance from the end of the 1950s.” (p. 35)
In this issue of Inconvenient History we attempt to efface several historical myths. Several articles consider elements of the Holocaust story. Thomas Dalton offers the first part of his detailed analysis of Joseph Goebbels’s statements about the Jews. Editorial Advisor Carlo Mattogno considers Sonderkommando Shlomo Venezia’s testimonies about the Gas Chambers of Birkenau. Thomas Kues offers a detailed look at the memoirs of Chil Rajchman. Paul Grubach writes about the stake that various non-Jewish entities have in supporting the Holocaust mythology. The topic of whether the atomic bombings of Japan were necessary or an example of an Allied war crime is considered by Joseph Bishop. In addition we have two interesting book reviews. I have reviewed David Irving’s Banged Up!, which accounts his imprisonment for thoughtcrimes in Austria. L.A. Rollins offers an insightful look at Christopher Hitchens and His Critics.
At the Nuremberg trials, it was specifically and rigorously prohibited to contest what really happened when mounting a defense against charges made. Major General I.T. Nikitchenko (center) and Lieutenant Colonel A. F. Volchkov (left), the Russian judges on the International Military Tribunal. British Justice Norman Birkett is on the right. Photo: October, 1945.
The Allies also directly bombed concentration camp prisoners, and today we are told this is proof of a German planned Holocaust.
Firstly, there is the positive evidence in Demjanjuk’s favour. “Three other survivors of the upper camp (at Treblinka) – two in Israel and one in Australia – did not see a resemblance.” Ms Sereny has already admitted that “The documentary record is scanty; our knowledge of it depends, in the final analysis, on human memory.” Is it justice to execute Demjanjuk 43 years after the war on the basis of “human memory”?
“Now dreadful things were happening in Auschwitz-Birkenau during 1944. They were gassing and burning thousands of people who couldn’t work anymore because of their failing strength; I knew practically everything that was going on there. I knew that from all over the continent people would be brought to Auschwitz-Birkenau: men, women, children, old people; then they were sorted out and some were gassed right away. There were heaps and heaps of clothing, glasses, footwear – huge warehouses full of possessions taken from these people. They just put them into the gas chambers using this Zyklon B gas and then they were burned. And this happened day in and day out.” (p. 210)
Even if we accept that these words could only refer to murder, it seems rather contrary to all common sense to be attempting a secret genocidal program against a specific ethnic group while making speeches and writing articles for public consumption, in which you tell anyone who is listening or reading that you are doing exactly that. This is what Herf and others like him seem to be proposing. We therefore find ourselves confronting a problem. The meaning of these words is not as clear as Herf suggests. They could be referring to mass murder, but to determine that, their context would have to be carefully examined by somebody with expertise in German language usage of the period. Furthermore, there would appear to be a choice to make. Either the Nazis were engaged in a genocidal program against the Jews and were happy to have it known, or they wanted it to be a secret. If the former, then the whole argument regarding sonderbehandlung (special treatment) collapses, as the narrative presently holds that it was used as a code word on Nazi documents to keep the Holocaust a secret. If, on the other hand, the Holocaust was meant to be hidden, then the Nazis public use of vernichten and ausrotten in speeches cannot have referred to physical extermination. They must either have been intended with Streicher and Rosenberg’s interpretation of the annihilation of Jewish power, or one of the alternative meanings from the 1955 dictionary, which Herf does not acknowledge even exist.
“Then one of the prisoners in a striped uniform commanded us to follow him. Well, we turned to the left and walked a little way for two or three minutes. A truck arrived, stopped near us and on the truck were all the women, children, babies and in the centre my wife and child standing up. They stood up to the light as if it was meant to be like that – so that I could recognise them. A picture I’ll never forget. All these were supposed to have gone to the bathroom to have a bath, to eat and to live. Instead they had to undress and go into the gas chambers, and two hours later those people were ashes, including my wife and child.” (p. 159)
Many Jewish Holocaust historians agree with Irving that the Wannsee Conference did not discuss the extermination of Europe’s Jews. Israeli Holocaust historian Yehuda Bauer has declared, “The public still repeats, time after time, the silly story that at Wannsee the extermination of the Jews was arrived at.”[15] Likewise, Israeli Holocaust historian Leni Yahil has stated in regard to the Wannsee Conference, “[I]t is often assumed that the decision to launch the Final Solution was taken on this occasion, but this is not so.…”[16]
If we are to trust the ADL, not only are there still many people who have never even heard of the Holocaust, but a remarkable 32% express doubts about it or clearly rejects it. Because of this, bombastic headlines such as “The World is Full of Holocaust Deniers” appeared on some web pages such as The Atlantic.[2]
The next two photos show one of the doors of an alleged gas chamber for the killing of a crowd of people with the same gas. This is the “gas chamber” of Auschwitz-I (main camp), thus far visited by millions of tourists. The door opens inwards, which constitutes an absurdity since the corpses strewn about on the floor inside would have prevented it from opening. The same door, closed, reveals two more absurdities, since gas would have escaped through both the keyhole and the easily breakable glass pane, thus reaching the nearby SS infirmary. In 1995 the orthodox historian Eric Conan wrote that I was right about the impressive set of “falsifications” I had discovered in 1975-1976.6 Numerous others have, in the past, denounced these falsifications. Why are they still passed over in silence today?
But these claims have withered under critical examination. One chamber in the ‘new crematorium’ was simply an enclosed, windowless room—but lacking a ventilation system, it could not have been used to gas people. Two other chambers were claimed to exist in a ‘Barrack 28’—which no one can locate today, and was likely a figment of Soviet imagination.
In early 2010, Professor van Pelt made another eyebrow raising admission. He stated that there is no physical evidence to prove ninety nine percent of what is known about the alleged Auschwitz extermination camp story.[10]
Rose even claimed to have decried the criminalization of Holocaust denial in a speech he gave in Israel, and to have defended his position against complainants who claimed to be related to Jews who died in the Holocaust. At least he was on the right side of the issue when he brought it up, and apparently intrepid about when and where he did so.
TOKYO. Friday (A.A.P.) – A French war crimes officer, Fernand Gabrillagues, told the tribunal how 65 French prisoners of war singing the “Marseillaise” were shot en masse by Japanese in Indo China. The Japanese then bayoneted the wounded with unbridled savagery.
“Word was filtering out. It was also filtering out that transports were leaving for the east from the ghettos. It was known at that time that these transports went directly to Treblinka or Auschwitz. Terrible, terrible! But people didn’t want to talk about it. When the German Jews learned about it, they really refused to believe a lot of it. The German Jews themselves would say, ’This is atrocity propaganda. That can’t be so. After all, it’s the twentieth century and we’re German.’ Many of them still considered themselves German. They didn’t believe it primarily because they didn’t want to believe it. Who can blame them? In Breslau the transports started in 1941. My grandmother had sisters, all of whom were sent on these transports. These people were taken away and they had nothing but their baggage. They left behind all their belongings, apartments, rooms, whatever they had. There were some vague rumors that they were going to the east to work. My grandmother’s sisters at that time were in their sixties. How were they going to work in the east? There were sick people. ’What is happening to them?’ they wondered. It was very disturbing, yet nothing was known for certain. Nobody knew of the gas chamber in Auschwitz at that time. Breslau had a very large Jewish community, the second or third largest in Germany. The only Jews left in Breslau at the end of 1942 were those who were integrated in the German war effort.”
It is therefore clear that orthodox historians have to adjust their narrative to accommodate that role somehow. For instance, Treblinka could be re-labeled as a combined extermination and transit camp, serving both purposes at once. This dual-interpretation approach, first observed by Arthur Butz in his trail-blazing book,[23] has been very successful in shoring up the orthodox extermination narrative for Auschwitz and Majdanek, when the mounting evidence against their cases threatened to undermine them. In the case of Treblinka, orthodox as well as revisionist historians could be accommodated by saying that, yes, there was a real shower, but, yes, it was also equipped to murder instead of shower the deportees. Whether that is a credible narrative, is for the reader to decide.
Volckmer does not clearly dispute any accusations against the Germans. She refers near the end of the story to “Auschwitz, or what is left of it,” and Jones takes this as an allusion to the erosion of  Auschwitz's credibility as a site of gassings. It could mean that, but in context, it is not at all clear: if it is such an allusion, Volckmer was careful to make it entirely ambiguous.
[3] Lipstadt, Deborah E., History on Trial: My Day in Court with David Irving, New York: HarperCollins Publishers Inc., 2005, p. xviii; See also Lipstadt, Deborah E., Denying the Holocaust: The Growing Assault on Truth and Memory, New York: The Free Press, 1993, p. 161.
Thus, precisely and solely this method justifies the folk legend, referred to by many witnesses, of the mass graves covered by dirt which moved for three days, because the victims were buried alive (p. 81, 109, 175, 274), with the variants of two days (p. 187), or four days (p. 267); or of the use of a "well" instead of a mass grave (p. 263), evidence of extraordinary vitality on the part of the victims, to say the least: buried alive, three days below ground, without air, after being deliberately "stamped" on, like grapes in a wine vat! If to this be added the shot in the back of the neck inflicted upon every single victim, buried alive in mass graves, for three days, only zombies would be capable of such movement.
THE PRESIDENT: This is utterly trifling [...] You are not testing his credibility effectively this way, Mr. Logan. It is possible that he does not know the exact date; I do not. I would have to refresh his memory from the evidence.
In this way, the Holocaust Controversies Internet site fails to note that this contradicts one of the cardinal assertions underlying Desbois's investigations, as we shall soon see (in § 9): the alleged incriminating implications of the German cartridge casings found by the said Desbois.
Dr. Mirko Viola wrote as follows from the prison where he had to be imprisoned for the crime of "damaging Holocaust & Memory Inc."…
Probably the most striking evidence of the hypocritical culture that Nuremberg created is contained within the treatment of those still pursued for their guilt on its charges. The chain of trials triggered by the IMT has continued into the very recent past, with possibilities of more in the near future. Operation Last Chance, a joint project of the Simon Wiesenthal Center and Targum Shlishi Foundation, was launched in July 2002 as ‘a campaign to bring remaining Nazi war criminals to justice by offering financial rewards for information leading to their arrest and conviction.’[27] They give an example of the kind of individual they are targeting, by writing, on their home page, in November 2007, ‘If he is still alive, former SS medical officer Aribert Heim is 93 years old, but his age will not protect the alleged Nazi war criminal from justice...’
She then offers a list of 12 points of alleged commonality amongst all deniers. Of these, only five are legitimate and relevant: (1) no genocide took place, (2) homicidal gas chambers did not exist, (3) Jewish fatalities were much less than 6 million, (4) there are non-sinister explanations for many issues, including Zyklon use against typhus and the fact that ausrotten means ‘uprooting,’ and (5) the Nuremberg trials were a “victors’ court” that involved torture to extract false confessions. Some of her other points are true but largely irrelevant to the revisionist case: Jews were involved in instigating the war, Russia was the true enemy of the West, Jews were part of the anti-German insurrection, and the victorious Allied/American investigation teams “contained a preponderance of Jews.” Her remaining points include many other misleading and deceptive charges.[82]
On 7 July 1944, Churchill approved the bombing of Auschwitz by the British Air Force, but the operation was never carried out.[54] Four days later, on 11 July, Churchill issued his oft-quoted declaration on the Holocaust: “There is no doubt that this is probably the greatest and most horrible crime ever committed in the whole history of the world, and it has been done by scientific machinery by nominally civilized men in the name of a great State and one of the leading races of Europe.”[55]
So unambiguous, so bald-faced, so inherently factual-sounding is this sort of notion that those at whom it is directed swallow it without so much as an instant of the sort of hesitation that other statements, such as “They instituted a vast program of genocide using gas chambers” could arouse in the preternaturally thoughtful. Much less do they inspire any of the retrospection that memes such as the Domino Theory arouse among those few who indulge in later reflection on ideas that they accepted in the past. Being utterly unprovable, pronouncements such as “Atomic bombs saved 500,000 American lives” pass into unassailable fact without further cavil.
“What I remember about arriving in Auschwitz, June 1943, was a lot of noise, a lot of dogs barking, screaming, shouting and waiting all night for something – we didn’t know what. Then when morning came we were shoved in another barrack and all the ceremony was started: you know, the hair was shaved, the number tattooed and your clothes were taken off you. All this was done by prisoners not SS people. Auschwitz was run by the inmates, the SS were on the fringe, but the actual work was done by the inmates. The person who processed me asked a lot of questions: What is going on outside? How is the war going?Where do you come from? What do you do? I told her where I came from and for some reason I said that I played the cello. ‘Oh,’ she said, ‘that’s fantastic! Stand here to the side.’ Everybody else was going through and I was still standing there... I waited and waited and I didn’t know what I was waiting for. I knew the gas chamber looked like a shower room and I was in a shower room – I thought: that’s probably it. But it wasn’t, because into this room marched a lady who introduced herself as Alma Rosé who was the conductor of the camp orchestra. […] Now I hadn’t touched the cello for two years and I asked for five minutes’ practice time and then played her something. And I became a member of the famous orchestra.” (p. 180)
“339 FS Section, BRUNSBÜTTEL had received information via Umland agency, that the wife of SS Obersturmbannführer HÖSS ex-Kommandant of the notorious AUSCHWITZ Concentration Camp, was living in the Sugar Factory, ST MICHAELISDONN. Two NCO’s of that Section interviewed Frau HÖSS, found her in possession of astonishingly large quantities of dresses, furs, cloth and other valuables, but she disclaimed all knowledge of the whereabouts of her husband. Some time after this, an officer of JAG (War Crimes) contacted 339 FSS and was eventually, since this Detachment had arrived in the area, passed on to us.”
A number of historians or researchers, such as Arno Mayer, Jean-Claude Pressac and Robert Jan van Pelt, have also capitulated, in a more frank and direct manner. The first has had to admit, among other bitter observations, that “Sources for the study of the gas chambers are at once rare and unreliable.”3 The second, a protégé of the Klarsfeld couple, came to understand that the dossier of the official story of the Jews’ extermination, “rotten” with too many lies, was bound for “the rubbish bins of history.”4 The third has concluded that “Ninety-nine per cent of what we know [about Auschwitz] we do not actually have the physical evidence to prove;”5 despite this, millions of visitors there have been and continue to be shown a “gas chamber” said to be in its “original state,” as well as ruins of other alleged “gas chambers.” As for the figure of “six million,” never subjected to the least scientific verification, it is rooted in the most sordid of realities: an old American publicity slogan used already before 1900 and up to the end of the Second World War to collect a windfall of cash especially from the Jewish community.6 The searing words amounted to the cry “Six million of our brothers are dying in Europe [by the acts, according to circumstance, of Poland, the Balkan countries, Tsarist Russia, National-Socialist Germany...]; we await your money for the victims of this holocaust [sic already in 1919]!”
Visibly struck by the argument, our interlocutor, losing all self-assurance, asked us in a plaintive tone: “Why do you lend so much importance to that statement of Eichmann’s?” And he explained that the man was under the influence of alcohol and that he suffered relative to himself, Wilhelm Höttl, from an inferiority complex, which led him to inflate the facts and figures. In other words, Höttl suddenly called into question the central point of his own affidavit. He even withdrew all value from it. However, it was that ringing declaration which, subsequently, would allow the Tribunal to launch the announcement to the world of Germany’s extermination of six million Jews. Höttl had lied; then, as seen above, to that lie the judges at Nuremberg added their own lie in coldly attributing the statement to Eichmann himself.
So, how many people really perished at Sachsenhausen?
Chopra also supports the idea of epigenetics, which is the idea that traumatic experiences affect DNA in ways that are passed on to children and grandchildren. In his book Super Genes, Chopra cites a study led by neuroscientist Rachel Yehuda at Mount Sinai’s Icahn School of Medicine on the effects of the “Holocaust” on gene activity. The study took 80 children who had at least one parent who was a “Holocaust” survivor and compared them with 15 “demographically similar” children whose parents were not “Holocaust” survivors. [16]
Rudolf Franz Ferdinand HOESS must be regarded as one of the major War Criminals. While Commandant of AUSCHWITZ Concentration Camp, he was entrusted by the Reichsfuehrer SS HIMMLER with the task of exterminating the Jews of EUROPE.
For its false assertions regarding this transport, Czech’s Auschwitz Chronicle again cites the Kremer diary! Thus only a small percentage of the Jews deported from Holland on October 16, 1942, actually arrived in Auschwitz.”
Lammers also testified at the Ministries Case (NMT, v. 13). Asked again about the Final Solution he affirmed (pp. 419-421):
If the War between the States had ended when the Second World War ended in 1945, this book’s 1908 debut would have occurred in 1988, so it was rather “fresher” vis-à-vis its subject than today’s books revising the Second World War. Of course, unlike today’s books about the Second World War, this book was written by an eyewitness about his own experiences, at the notorious prisoner-of-war camp nicknamed “Andersonville” after the name of the train station, Anderson Station, Georgia, where prisoners got off the train and marched to the nearby camp. It was upon reading of this march from the train station to the camp that the first “reverse echo” of descriptions of German concentration camps came to me. Many of these echoes, eerie in their totality, were to strike me in the rest of the reading partly, I suppose, because I have made a lifelong study of Second World War concentration camps—and not just those established and operated by the Germans.
Yet another unintentionally exculpatory factor for Mr. Irving is the realization that a regiment of Lipstadt’s researchers pored over every extant speech he ever gave, and the several million words he wrote, in search of an error (about dozen or so were found). If any one of us had every word we wrote or spoke through most of our lives examined, there would be plenty of grist for any detractor’s mill. Only two Irving errors are submitted: a questionable interpretation of a morgue at Auschwitz, and misattributed words in a note by Heinrich Himmler; these are not exactly earth-shaking derogations of his historiography.
That this is closer to the truth than what Czech conjectures can be demonstrated with the transport of Dutch Jews arriving at Auschwitz on Oct. 18. Here is what Carlo Mattogno has found out about that particular transport:[18]
Ms. Berger laments that their painstaking work faces one difficulty — Jewish tradition prohibits exhumation. But the work has huge significance, since “more Jews were killed by shooting in Ukraine” — an estimated 1.5 million — “than murdered in Auschwitz in the crematoria.” The veto on exhumation (which, as noted earlier, is contested by Prof. Faurisson) conveniently prevents painstaking forensic work.
During the trial hearing that followed, Ratajczak defended himself by stating that he had merely summarized the opinions of historians who deny the existence of homicidal gas chambers and protested that his own views were not in line with all the opinions cited in his book.
If you find the name of a ghetto prisoner and you know that she or he survived, please fill out a Shoah Survivor Registration form. In this way you can help us distinguish between the names of the murdered and the survivors on the list.”
Another Riga-related Tesch trial document mentions that “The large chamber of 120 cbm and the small one of 30 cbm should be kept out of the two chambers provided for mobile disinfestations etc.”[194] Again we are lacking a German original, and the translation is quite puzzling and perhaps incorrect, but one important aspect emerges, namely that chambers for mobile disinfestation, presumably vehicular, were in use in the Riga area. The existence of such devices likely contributed to reports of homicidal gas vans in this region.
Aktion 1005 was a highly classified operation. Orders and reports were given and received verbally, and no German documents were saved to provide evidence. The SS, which was responsible for the operation, did everything in its power to prevent a leak of information on the site…
“In light of this, it is legitimate to ask why Holocaust and genocide denial would merit a study in its own right. The claims of deniers, after all, carry a degree of absurdity which puts them well within the ranks of those who maintain that the landing on the Moon was a hoax and that the Earth is flat. And there is the risk that even the mention of such claims gives them a prominence that they do not deserve. Ignoring them seems the safer option and in due time, so the thinking goes, they will wither away. In that regard, however, the denial of mass violence is a rather different matter. There is nothing trivial about it. To the survivors of the events and their families, denial causes renewed suffering. It targets one of the few things that they salvaged from the horrors of the time: their right to the memory of the events, which is an integral part of their personalities. It typically attacks their dignity, for the denial of mass violence carries the implied message that the reports of these events had been an invention.” (ibid.)
In response to this account I sent an email to the paper’s Letters Editor as follows: ‘Efraim Zuroff believes “the odds were heavily against him” in his attempt to have Charles Zentai extradited to Hungary to face “Nazi war crimes” charges. However, during the seven years involved (2005-2012) I do not recall seeing a single opinion piece favourable to Zentai’s cause published in any of the three major newspapers read in Melbourne. By contrast, all three papers published opinion pieces favourable to his pursuers. The Australian, in particular, mentioned more than once that its own research had turned up evidence against Zentai, this leading to the impression that the paper was giving assistance to his opponents. Zuroff is correct that good coverage was given to the views and research of Zentai’s own family, but these could easily be discounted as “biased by blood”. Little or no effort was made to publicise the views of other Australians opposed to Zentai’s extradition and the belated campaign of the “Nazi hunter”.’ Unfortunately The Australian did not publish this response.
Demnach wurde das Gift weder durch die falschen Duschköpfe verabreicht, wie der Kongressbericht behauptete, noch durch das Lüftungssystem, wie es der US-Dokumentarfilm nahelegte, der während des Nürnberger Tribunals gezeigt wurde. Aber wie hätte es sonst noch gemacht werden können? Hier ist die Geschichte, wie man sie uns heute erzählt:
A. We talked over this happening just as I gave the evidence a few moments before.[60]
Near the end of that year, we are told, the Germans decided to ramp up the gassing routine. They elected to build four new crematoria in Birkenau—Kremas 2-5. These were all in action by June 1943, and they carried the gassing load through the end of the camp’s existence.
Van Pelt uses Zyklon delivery quantities from Tesch trial documents, but these numbers are not complete and hence not suitable for comparisons of the sort van Pelt wants to draw.[113] The quantities van Pelt quotes do not include the gassings that TESTA carried out themselves in the camps,[114] notably in Sachsenhausen and Neuengamme, where these quantities are large enough to dramatically alter the results of van Pelt’s calculations for 1942.[115] TESTA’s books record that in that year it gassed a total of 334,720 cubic meters at Sachsenhausen and 112,260 cubic meters at Neuengamme. At 15 grams per cubic meter, the standard concentration for gassing barracks,[116] this means the use of 5,020.8 and 1,683.9 kg of Zyklon, respectively. These quantities dwarf van Pelt’s annual totals of 1,438 and 180 kg for these two camps. When the two sets of figures are added together, it appears that the quantities of Zyklon going to Sachsenhausen and Neuengamme in 1942 were, if anything, excessive in comparison with the quantity going to Auschwitz, perhaps as a result of German fear that epidemics in these camps might spread and affect the nearby urban areas.
The next topic concerns the capacity of the crematoria at Auschwitz. If you wanted to figure out what the features of a cremation furnace are, what would you do? Well, any reasonable person would consult expert literature on cremation, and if push comes to shove, engineering calculations and experiments could also be performed. But not so our Debbie. She instead refers to a simple letter by the Auschwitz administration. Again, stop the video to read her ramblings, if you care to.
False Jewish-eyewitness testimony has often been used to attempt to convict innocent defendants. For example, John Demjanjuk, a naturalized American citizen, was accused by eyewitnesses of being a murderous guard at Treblinka named Ivan the Terrible. Demjanjuk was deported to Israel, and an Israeli court tried and convicted him primarily based on the eyewitness testimony of five Jewish survivors of Treblinka. Demjanjuk’s defense attorney eventually uncovered new evidence proving that the Soviet KGB had framed Demjanjuk by forging documents supposedly showing him to be a guard at Treblinka. The Israeli Supreme Court ruled that the five Jewish eyewitness accounts were not credible, and that Demjanjuk was innocent.[25]
Thus we can see the same deceptions at work here as in Evans’s book. Ad hominem attacks abound: revisionists are “deniers,” “anti-Semites,” and “racists.” Misleading presentation of revisionism and the leading revisionists: no mention at all of Mattogno, Rudolf, Graf, Kues, or Berg, nor anything at all on their many important publications through 2010. Silence on many of the same key issues: nothing on the ‘6 million,’ Hitler’s actual words, deportation plans, incriminating air photos, or the glaring absence of bodies or remains. And straw-man arguments: emphasis on ‘hoax,’ ‘myth,’ evidence fabrication, and the idea that ‘the Holocaust never happened.’
Let us turn to the Auschwitz conference on the persecution of the Gypsies. Piotr Kaszyca provides a long list of 167 “execution locations” in the Generalgouvernement[70] in which 3,600 Gypsies are said to have been killed,[71] a list subsequently updated to 188 locations and 4,200 victims,[72] which would nevertheless only represent a small percentage of the 30,000 Gypsies deported to the Generalgouvernement from Reich territory in 1940.[73] Prior to 1 September 1939, there were 30,000, 50,000 or 70,000 Gypsies living in Poland.[74] The presumed executions mentioned above are not, in reality, supported by documents or material reports. It is all based on testimonies.
1. Hitler's "Final Solution" was intended to be ethnic cleansing, not extermination.
But lo, on the same day Elie gets the prognosis about his foot, comes word of evacuation. Not that Elie need worry, for his doctor tells him hospital patients will not be evacuated but can remain in the infirmary. Immediately, the Hungarian Jew predicts all invalids will be summarily killed, sent to the crematory as part of a final liquidation. What Elie doesn’t tell us and what the Hungarian obviously doesn’t know is that all of Birkenau’s crematories have already been shut down, the last being Kremas II, III, and V which, according to official records, ceased operating on 30 October 1944.[14] But truth doesn’t stop rumors, nor Elie’s speaking of them as if they might be taken seriously. Same for another rumor the camp will be blown up before the Russians arrive. All is belied by the fact Elie tells us death does not worry him. What worries him is being separated from his father. And this is because they had already suffered “so much,” borne “so much,” that now was not the time. Given what he has written earlier, one wonders. Why is he telling us this? But a few pages earlier, when he was describing the Allied bombing at Buna where his father was working, he was telling us despite the risk to his father he was glad about the bombing because it meant destruction and revenge. Now he is telling us when the Russians are coming he is worried about being separated from his father. What’s this leading up to? Elie runs in the snow on his bad foot with no shoe to find his father. What shall we do, he asks him? Elie is confident he can get the Jewish doctor to have his father entered as a patient or a nurse and thereby fall within the rule of allowing those in the infirmary to remain behind. Soft beds, nourishing food, clean sheets, and all they would have to do is wait for the Russians. And it is not a matter of Elie worrying about liquidation or the camp being blown up because he has already and to his credit refused believing what people saying these things have previously said about hospital selections.[15] So rather than the soft beds, clean sheets and nourishing food waiting for liberation, he instead suggests he and his father “be evacuated with the others.” That is, he suggests, even with his bad foot, he and his father leave with the retreating Germans to remain prisoners at another camp in Germany! People have made much to do over this and I think they should. It is nothing less than an admission despite all the hubbub about cruelty and mistreatment, despite the descriptions of forced labor and executions, remaining with the Germans was preferable to all other options – including being liberated by the Russians. This is telling. And what it tells is that the Germans may not have been so bad after all.[16]
Bizarre inconsistencies like this are exactly what the Holocaust Revisionist hypothesis would predict, and this is why even the most anti-Revisionist reader should consider Churchill’s statements from a Revisionist perspective. Revisionism states that many of the wartime claims of the Allies and Zionists in regard to the alleged extermination of the Jews were simply false propaganda, designed to serve ulterior Allied and Zionist political agendas.
“There is no evidence that in the North African, European, or Pacific theaters American interrogators relied on systematic forms of physical and psychological pressure to obtain information from combatants or civilians. Nor is there convincing evidence that they did so in war crimes investigations after the war.”
“Germans Will Rule over Deported Slovakian Jews in Concentration Camps in Eastern Europe
If Crowell is correct, the apocalyptic specter of millions being led to slaughter in Nazi gas chambers will come to be understood as a popular delusion on par with the great witch manias to which Evans and Bartholomew assign prominence of place. But the gassing-extermination narrative at the center of Holocaust historiography is currently withheld from consideration as an instance of collective delusion. Whether their omission is deliberate or innocent, the authors’ blindness remains instructive. Like the Western historians of the Boxer Rising or like the creator of Sherlock Holmes, Evans and Bartholomew reveal themselves as men of their time, men who are capable, like all of us, of missing everything.
Finding and encouraging testimony from "victims" turned out to be just as easy and treacherous as identifying "perpetrators," even where the victims did not know and could not identify those against whom they testified. In this process, in fact, individual identities became virtually moot, as group associations overwhelmed the particulars of any dealings that may have transpired between or among individuals. Many who felt themselves victims in one way or another, particularly those whose tormentors were dead (perhaps even already executed) sought revenge against other members of the "same group" to further sate their retributive lust. In yet another mass prejudgment, the tribunal declared the SS (Schutzstaffel) a "criminal organization," membership in which was a punishable crime in and of itself. This came as quite a shock to its many members who had joined under circumstances of being assured that doing so was a service to National Socialism and the state.
Unfortunately for the propagandists, some knowledge about the actual destinations for some of the Jewish transports seeped through to the civilian population. The initial reaction of the propagandists seems to have been to dismiss these transports as exceptions or “decoy transports” used to fool the Jews remaining behind into believing that actual resettlement was taking place. Later, when postcards from deported Jews continued to reach the Warsaw ghetto, one launched the allegation that the Germans were forging the letters or forcing deportees to write postcards with misleading contents after their arrival at the “extermination camps.”[40]
“The court shall decide on the result of the evidence taken according to its free conviction gained from the hearing as a whole.”
A letter from Kammler to the Generalbevollmächtigte für die Regelung der Bauwirtschaft (Chief of Coordination of the Construction Industry) dated 15 September 1942 bearing the subject “Special Construction Tasks for KL Auschwitz» (Sonderbauaufgaben für das K.L. Auschwitz) informs us that the program was approved by Albert Speer, responsible for the Four-Year Plan and Chief of Coordination of the Construction Industry, and Pohl, head of the SS-Wirtschafts-Verwaltungshauptamt:
The figure of 4 million victims thus served a double purpose. On the one hand, the Soviets used it to hide their own and – in time as well as in scope - far more extensive atrocities and, on the other, it conferred a new dimension upon the crimes committed by the Nazis and allowed the victors of World War II to justify any and all of their actions as being irreproachable in the fight against such a devilish enemy. Taking a step back, we find ourselves facing a circular argument: the enormity of the number of victims and the corresponding machine-like manner in which they were killed gave a quality of its own to the Auschwitz site, and because of this uniqueness it was henceforth futile to whittle down the numbers. Therefore, if one wants to gain a real insight into the case of Auschwitz, it is of great importance to evaluate the actual number of people who died there and the circumstances of their death – something that Fritjof Meyer has tried to do in a lame sort of way. What is needed now is not so much a computation from the top down, but a kind of zero-base analysis, a scrutiny of all the underpinnings of what many people regard as the crime of the millennium.
Falborski also featured in Claude Lanzmann’s movie Shoah (1985), where he related the following story from hearsay:[5]
Deborah Lipstadt, a professor of Holocaust studies at Emory University in Atlanta, wrote in 2011 […] ‘this number is simply inaccurate, in fact made up […].’”
“I have considerable knowledge in that area, however, I suggest you contact Mr. Fred A. Luechter [sic]. [...] Mr. Luechter [sic] is an engineer specializing in gas chambers and executions. He is well versed in all areas and is the only consultant in the United States that I know of.”[2]
Wilhelm Frick and Heinrich Himmler visit Sachsenhausen circa 1936.
Nyiszli provides a completely invented history of the Birkenau crematoria, even stating that they were built during the winter of 1939-1940, when Auschwitz didn’t even exist yet.
How, then, did this incredible groundswell of testimony arise, if, as growing numbers of revisionists now assert, “No one was gassed” (“Niemand wurde vergast,” in a language in which it is forbidden to publish such notions)? The facts of the matter lie somewhere between the “groundswell” and a nefarious conspiracy by some obscure Star Chamber to deceive the future masses of the world.
Three months later, a brilliant Swiss pedagogue, Jürgen Graf, was abruptly suspended after passing out copies of his premiere revisionist book The Holocaust on the Test Stand: Eyewitness Reports versus the Laws of Nature, to colleagues, journalists and politicians across Switzerland.
While it is impossible to prove that Hess flew to Scotland with Hitler’s knowledge and approval, the available evidence suggests that he did. The relationship between Hess and Hitler was so close that one can logically assume that Hess would not have undertaken such an important step without first informing Hitler. Also, Hess was prohibited from speaking openly about his mission during the entire 40-year period of his imprisonment in Spandau Prison. This “gag order” was obviously imposed because Hess knew things that, if publicly known, would be highly embarrassing to the Allied governments.[21]
Based on the absurd cremation capacity of 5,000 bodies in 24 hours for each crematorium, Nyiszli has built an arithmetically fantastic history of the mass gassings. Here are a few examples:
Millions of Jews eventually received personal compensation for their pain and suffering in the so-called Holocaust. The German federal government as of 1998 had paid reparations to Israel and Third Reich victims of about $61.8 billion. In addition, Germans had paid many additional billions in private and other public funds to wartime forced laborers.[28] German reparations to Israel and Jews continue to this day.[29]
So what about the research state of revisionism? Of this, there can be no doubt. From the pioneer studies of Rassinier and Butz, the era after 2002 saw the publication of dozens of revisionist works (books and videos) that are still growing, focusing on all aspects of the Holocaust, not at all a sign of decline. And there is more. On March 2017, all revisionist books, numbering in the hundreds, were BANNED from Amazon. Clearly, there are people out there, much more influential than Terry, who do not at all endorse his claims about a revisionist decline. And Terry does not utter a single word about this.
As for the deliberate character of the alleged extermination of the Jews  of a whole continent, Raul Hilberg was not afraid of stating, in 1961 in the first edition of his work of reference, that there had been two orders from Hitler to kill the Jews (The Destruction of the European Jews, Chicago, Quadrangle Books, p. 177). Following the emergence of historical revisionism on the international scene he  abandoned that statement, which had not been accompanied by any document or evidence, and came up with another, asserting that, if no document or evidence could be found, it was because the destruction of European Jewry had been done spontaneously, without orders, without a plan, without anything, thanks to the initiative and action of a large bureaucracy working to that purpose by means of thought transmission (The Destruction of the European Jews, Revised and Definitive Edition, New York and London, Holmes & Meier, 3 volumes, 1985, pp. 53, 55, 62)! According to the new Hilberg, that strange bureaucracy, thought to be so obedient and punctilious, had at some point suddenly taken the initiative to throw overboard all bureaucratic restraint and all obedience to whatever orders came from above, and did so to set about killing the Jews ; from then on it had worked only “by an incredible meeting of minds, a consensus-mind reading”, and without any “basic plan,” with “written directives not published,” “broad authorizations to subordinates, not published,” “oral directives and authorizations,” “basic understandings of officials resulting in decisions not requiring orders or explanations.” Hilberg explains that “no one agency was charged with the whole operation”; “no single organization directed or coordinated the entire process”; “no special agency was created and no special budget was devised to destroy the Jews of Europe”; “In the final analysis, the destruction of the Jews was not so much a product of laws and commands, as it was a matter of spirit, of shared comprehension, of consonance and synchronization” (“Raul Hilberg explique maintenant le génocide par télépathie” [Raul Hilberg now explains the genocide by telepathy], http://robertfaurisson.blogspot.com/1988/09/raul-hilberg-explique-maintenant-le.html).
Nowhere in his 1997 book does Blatt claim he actually saw, with own two eyes, “naked people being pushed into the gas chambers with bayonets.”
While a statute of limitations should have been enacted years ago, time itself has set a limitation on the continuation of such trials. Trials that would follow Demjanjuk’s would be equally lacking in evidence. Today such trials and those who encourage them appear to be acting solely out of sheer vengefulness. Old wounds will never be healed as long as such hatred and vengeance is allowed to go on. The time is now to cease the prosecution of the events of a time that is so long past. The absurdity of such trials is highlighted by considering what would have followed if a newly elected Franklin Roosevelt were to seek to put Confederate soldiers on trial. Can anyone imagine 25 years from now some new Asiatic regime arresting, deporting and trying Americans for the murder of civilians during the Vietnam War?
Upon their return to the Netherlands the former prisoners Willem Frederik Bischoff van Heemskerck and Cand. Med. Johann Hers compiled a report about Sachsenhausen.[12] Both young men had studied medicine before the outbreak of the war, and Bischoff had for some time served in the Dutch army as a lieutenant. Both had been deported to Sachsenhausen because of their activities on behalf of the illegal resistance movement. During the final stage of the camp, Bischoff was Technical Director of the hospital barracks and Hers had worked there as an orderly. A copy of their report was made available to Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands, and another copy apparently was forwarded to the British authorities.
In 2009 the Israeli holocaust historian Yitzhak Arad published a comprehensive history on the alleged extermination of the Jews in the German-occupied eastern territories, The Holocaust in the Soviet Union. In this 700-page volume Trostenets is devoted in total some two pages, most of which consist of quotes from testimonies already available in Kohl (2003). Arad states that 17 transports of in total some 16,000 Austrian, German and Czech Jews were murdered at Trostenets[105], while adopting Gerlach's lower total figure of 40,000 victims.[106] On the other hand Arad gives the number of victims from the liquidation of the Minsk Ghetto on 21 October 1943 as 2-3,000 at the most, as compared to the 5,000 estimated by Gerlach.[107] Nothing more needs to be said about Arad's brief treatment of the camp, except that it is riddled with misspellings of names (“Lagovchina” instead of Blagovshchina, “Adolf Riba” instead of Adolf Rübe, and “Hauser” instead of Heuser)[108], and that in quoting the ESC report of September 1944 he conflates its statements concerning the Blagovshchina mass graves with those regarding Shashkovka without notifying his readers.[109]
According to our opponents, the 1944 deportations of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews as well as a smaller number of Polish Jews to Auschwitz (and allegedly, in the latter case, also to Chełmno), constitutes an Achilles heel of the resettlement theory:
And this request for histological examination is the only documentary “proof” of the “crimes” of Dr. Mengele to be found in the archive of the Auschwitz Museum! Not much for the so-called “Angel of Death” of Auschwitz, and H. Kubica, apparently aware of this, as a last resort cites the “eyewitness” so decisive to her, Miklos Nyiszli, about whom, more below.
The first transport with 2,000 Soviet POWs reached Sachsenhausen towards the end of August 1941. Starting with this transport, ”about 16,000 Soviet prisoners of war“ were taken to the camp, more than 13,000 of whom were allegedly shot, so only about 2,000 were still alive after the end of the ”action“. Contrary to the Soviet version of the events, circumstantial evidence points to the fact that the first Russian POWs reached Sachsenhausen as late as in the middle of October 1941. Up to the present day it is not certain when the shooting of Russian POWs really began.
They talked loudly among themselves, laughing all the while. Two or three inmates dropped out of line when they spotted us, opened their flies, and made water. Although this gesture could have been interpreted as a sign of contempt for German men in uniform, the SS guards ignored it completely. Later, whenever I heard that mortal terror prevailed in the concentration camps, I had to recall this incident. That is hardly the way people who are in constant fear of death behave.[26]
Soon revisionists turned to the World Wide Web and established Websites to permanently present their views about what Robert Faurisson termed “the Problem of the Gas Chambers.” With revisionists now reaching a much broader audience, those who feared intellectual freedom stepped up their offensive against freedom of speech and the press.  On July 4, 1996, the CODOH Website was shut down without warning by their ISP.  Even worse, arsonists attacked the offices of the Historical Review Press in the United Kingdom.  Governments too were influenced by powerful lobbies to establish legislation and prosecute (some would say persecute) revisionists.  Carlos Porter was fined  by a German court for writing and publishing a revisionist analysis of the Nuremberg Tribunals, Not Guilty at Nuremberg.   A movement had also begun to criminalize revisionism in the English-speaking world.  Tony Blair, running for the Prime Minister position in the United Kingdom in 1997, repeatedly promised to ban revisionist writings about the Holocaust.
In addition to the main camp, Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp comprised about 15 satellite camps and dozens of small outstations. In the pre-war period, only male prisoners were interned here, but during the war, thousands of female prisoners were deported to Sachsenhausen as well. Another category of detainees was the Soviet POWs. Which categories of prisoners do the above-mentioned statistics refer to: All prisoners, or only the male ones? The entire Sachsenhausen complex including the satellite camps or only the main camp? And what about the Soviet POWs? Engemann and his comrades do not even broach these important questions, and historians hardly ever discuss them either. However, a comparison with contemporaneous SS statistics of all prisoners in all concentration camps (a document dating from January 1945) allows us to conclude that the Veränderungsmeldungen and the Häftlingsbewegung referred to the entire camp including the satellite camps, but only to the male inmates.[3]
PROSECUTION: May it please the court... whether or not there is any evidence before the court as to the criminality and culpability with respect to Schoepp and Gretsch, is a matter which this court has already decided, in their rulings on the motion for a directed verdict of not guilty. It may be the position of the defense counsel that there is no evidence, but I think it is grossly improper to put the court into the position of asking the accused to be put on the stand. I think it is highly improper for the defense counsel to ask the court to reveal their attitude by putting them in the position of asking the accused Schoepp and Gretsch to take the stand. I think that that is an election which should be made by the accused themselves, after they have conferred with counsel, and it is certainly improper to ask this court whether or not they have any questions that they want to ask the accused at this time.
To give another example, in 1978 NBC televised a "docudrama" entitled "Holocaust," and I wrote a review of it for the weekly Spotlight newspaper, predecessor of today's fortnightly American Free Press. I wrote (May 8, 1978):
PART I Development and concept of genocide denial
The real Christian strives for the truth. He gives the revisionist and traditional view of the Holocaust a fair hearing, and then attempts to determine where the truth really is. The “Holocaust” is an ideological interpretation of history that is propagated world wide by various power elites. It is to be evaluated with the same set of rational-scientific methods that historians and political scientists apply to other doctrines of this nature.
Even so, the Israeli and Polish archaeologists who investigated the site and are firm believers in the “reality” of the Holocaust admit that it is hard to imagine how 250,000 could have been murdered there. In their own words: “The camp was destroyed by the Germans after the prisoner revolt, so it is very difficult to imagine that the killing of 250,000 people took place here.”[83]
Beginning in the 1990s, Wolfgang Fröhlich similarly stood by his seriously researched and thoughtfully expressed views which amount to the most serious ‘heresy’ of our times: challenging historical orthodoxy regarding the purported extermination of six million European Jews in ‘homicidal gas chambers’ on the orders of Adolf Hitler.
[…] Wiesenthal […] erzählte ihnen, er habe die 5-Millionen-Zahl sorgfältig gewählt: Er wollte eine Nummer, die groß genug war, um die Aufmerksamkeit von Nichtjuden zu erregen, denen jüdisches Leiden ansonsten egal ist, aber nicht größer als die tatsächliche Anzahl der Juden, die im Holocaust ermordet wurden, 6 Millionen.
Karski is almost unique in having been attacked as a witness by both Holocaust revisionists and traditionalists. These critics have seized on inaccuracies in Karski’s statements in order to argue that Karski never visited Belzec. We will now address the arguments in turn.
"I have now studied these [Curilla’s] and other books by the best German scholars for several years, and of course I am certain that one can rely on their research. As a classical philologist, I recognize traditional German scholarship when it is at its best. The claim that Leichenkeller 1 in Krema II was not a gas chamber is also a case of chutzpah. As you are aware, Bischoff wrote to Kammler 29 January 1943 that it was a Vergasungskeller, and the two engineers from Topf & Söhne (Karl Schultze and Fritz Sander, 17 February 1943) called it a Gaskeller. […] The lacking holes can also easily be explained. When Leichenkeller 1 was blown up, the holes, i.e. the edges of the holes, would have been the first to be blown away by the enormous pressure seeking to’escape’. The evidence for gas vans is also convincingly established. It is also chutzpah to say: 'No holes, no holocaust’ – as if the shooting of millions of Jews had nothing to do with the Endlösung! So, for these and many other reasons, it is now my firm conviction that Holocaust Revisionism is a moral and intellectual aberration. […] My claim is serious: Denial is chutzpah. […] Now we understand why Himmler said to the generals in Sonthofen, 21 June 1944: Es ist gut, dass wir die Härte hatten, die Juden in unserem Bereich auszurotten. [It is good that we were tough enough to exterminate the Jews in our sphere of influence.] He goes on to say that the Weiber and Kinder [women and children] were also murdered. […] Himmler was honest, and we have to be honest as well."
As I anticipated, in 2007,Venezia finally filled the void, entrusting his memoirs to a book: Sonderkommando Auschwitz. The Truth about the Gas Chambers. A Unique Testimony[7], which I shall examine from a historical point of view, including from the point of view of his prior statements.
Much as it silences the growing numbers of us alive today who might otherwise undertake realistic analyses of it. Today, we are well past the “end game” of the Holocaust enterprise. We are, instead, approaching the end itself. And, on the score of the ever-increasing ferocity of its defenders, it will not be a game.
As the Churchill cultists fulminate and the Holocaust cultists register their special pique, the echo remains comfortably partisan. It is Baker’s rehearing of the pacifist’s appeal that rouses a more visceral – and more ecumenical – shade of contempt. Confronted with Gandhi’s unavailing entreaties “to fight Nazism without arms,” to bow to slaughter rather than profess false allegiance, Christopher Hitchens declared “that everything in me declines to be addressed in that tone of voice.” He later decries the pacifist position, sympathetically investigated though never unconditionally embraced by Baker, as “fatuous.” Other critics have dismissed Baker’s perceived capitulation to white-flag waving sentimentality in telling terms – as “incredulous” as “naïve” as “simplistic,” or just inarguably, meretriciously wrong.
However, the Aktion Reinhardt camps were transit camps rather than extermination camps. The demographic studies, the statements from Heinrich Himmler, the reports of transfers of Jews from the Aktion Reinhardt camps to Auschwitz and Majdanek, the lack of credible forensic evidence that mass exterminations occurred at these camps, the photographic and engineering evidence, the impossibility of disposing of so many bodies in such a short period of time, the relative lack of secrecy and security in the camps, and the small size of the areas where the bodies were supposedly buried all indicate that the Aktion Reinhardt camps were transit camps.[29]
An alleged suicide note written by Hess was discovered by the Allies two days after Hess’s death. This suicide note was later proven to be a crude hoax. Hess’s son Wolfgang concluded: “Rudolf Hess did not commit suicide on August 17, 1987, as the British government claims. The weight of evidence shows instead that British officials, acting on high-level orders, murdered my father.” [37]
We will continue our search through the testimonies by having a look at the book Remembering: Voices of the Holocaust (Carroll & Graf, New York 2006) edited by Lyn Smith. The foreword is by Laurence Rees who, explaining the reasons for publishing this book, writes:
The fact that relatively few transports of Jews from the Reinhardt camps to other destinations are documented can be explained quite easily. As early as in 1945, the victors of the Second World War decided to perpetuate the Jewish extermination legend, and we may safely assume that countless documents contradicting the official truth were either hidden or destroyed. Some people might accuse me of resorting to the same trick as the orthodox historians who claim that there is no documentary evidence for homicidal gas chambers because “the Germans destroyed the documents”, but such an accusation would be groundless, since my position is much more solid. If there were but one document proving the gassing of Jews, I would readily admit that there might have been others, but although 64 years have elapsed since the end of the war, no such document has emerged. On the other hand, we have seen that there are documents proving that Jews were sent from the Reinhardt camps to other destinations – and for each such document there may have been a hundred others.
The editing of the film “Nazi Concentration Camps” was supervised by Budd Schulberg, born Seymour Schulberg, son of the head of Paramount Studios. Schulberg was Jewish and a member of the communist party USA until 1939.
Michael Sexton SC addressed the inadequate terminology of racial vilification law: “There is room for argument as to whether the prohibition on intimidation should be retained, although this could normally be dealt with by the ordinary provisions of the criminal law. The notions of offense, insult and humiliation, however, involve hurt to feelings. This is always unattractive for the subject of the verbal attack, but these shock tactics have always been legitimate tools of debate on questions of politics and public interest….. Some of the defenders of Section 18C describe it as a bulwark against ‘hate speech’. One problem about this term is that it is now frequently used with reference to publications that are merely offensive. Hatred is a very powerful emotion and one, it might be thought, relatively rarely encountered.”[38] Neil Brown QC commented on a different weakness in the act. He pointed out that in the Bolt case the judge “decided there was no role for community standards” in determining his verdict and “instead applied a test that gave priority to the views of the group claiming to have been offended.” Brown suggested that liability in the future in such cases should be determined “according to community standards of propriety generally accepted by and expected of reasonable adults. And who better to determine whether an act offended community standards than the community itself by way of a jury?”[39] Of course, such a criterion might not achieve justice in every case: a Holocaust revisionist, for example, might still find himself disadvantaged as a result of prevailing public ignorance, itself brought about by bias in the public media. Former academic Merv Bendle dealt with another defense of the act brought up in certain quarters: “Claims that the repeal of Section 18C… might ‘‘unleash a darker, even violent side of our humanity’ are absurd and offensive….. This is not Nazi Germany, it is a highly tolerant society where an Aborigine has just been made Australian of the Year to general acclaim.”[40]
One former inmate described his five years in the Soviet-run Buchenwald Camp:
Nyiszli mentions eight extermination operations in the alleged gas chamber and in the vicinity of the “cremation pits”, at which he claims to have been personally present. Adding up the number of victims indicated by Nyiszli, we obtain a total of 605,000 persons, but he claims to have personally seen two million people enter the “gas chambers” with his own eyes. But in fact, near the “cremation pits”, the final destination for the “excess numbers from the Jewish ramp,” that is, those for whom there was no room in the over-filled gas chambers, 650,000 Jews were, according to him, killed with a bullet in the back of the neck, which is to say, more than the total of all the gassing victims, for the excess numbers of whom the “cremation pits” were supposed to have been dug in the first place.
But the statues. There was no fuss from anyone about the statues until recently. Indeed, there was no movement to erect Holocaust memorials until … when? The Soviet occupiers of Auschwitz, of course, put up the odd plaque in the camp claiming that the Nazis had murdered 4 million or so “people” at Auschwitz, but no one seems to have paid any attention to that, even after they walked the claimed number back to 1.2 million or so. The first Holocaust memorial outside Israel would seem to have been that erected, precociously, in Paris in 1956. France was, in 1990, the first country to enact laws (the Loi Gayssot) criminalizing the minimization or denial of the crimes said to have been committed against Jews by the National-Socialist regime of Germany during and prior to World War II.
“On Höss’s order, the gassing columns that were used for the gassing were made by the metalworking shop. The columns were 2 meters and a half high, the inner space 150 square mm in diameter, the following [layer[11]] at a distance of 30 mm, the third 15 mm away. The wire mesh used was like those used for windows, green in color; between the mire mesh and the sheet metal there was a distance of 15 mm. All this was about 1 meter and a half tall. At the mouth of this network was a so-called distribution cone. 7 pieces of these columns were made. The columns were installed in the gas chamber right next to the opening through which the can of gas was thrown in. This column was installed beneath this opening, the gas was poured directly onto the distribution cone. The cone was to uniformly distribute the gas into these four slots of 15 mm between the sheet metal and the netting, since that increased the gas-evaporation surface. That way the victims could be killed more rapidly. [Question:] What did such a gas chamber look like? In one crematorium, it was calculated for 2,500 men, in the other, smaller one [gas chamber] in the same crematorium for 1,500. The workers of the metalworking shop, inmates, had built this chamber. The chamber was higher than 2 meters, at the top were closed rectangular channels; these were the air-extraction openings through which fans expelled the gas. Zyklon is lighter than air; hence it dissipates quickly after the gassing. Makeshift [fake] showers were made so that the whole thing looked like a bath. Lamps were lit, the concrete floor was always wet. After a homicidal gassing, inmates of the Sonderkommando cleaned the concrete [floor]. These were Jewish inmates who were assigned to doing that work. Every three months, the Sonderkommando was exterminated, gassed, yet not at Auschwitz, but somewhere in the vicinity of Gleiwitz instead. The leader of this unit was Hauptscharführer Moll, […]”
As it is, of course, the Holocaust is very much alive today in 2018 and enjoying the rudest of health, thank you very much, protected by both censorship and criminal penalties against disputation in twenty countries or more. Arthur Butz today is 84 years old. He is probably resigned to the fate that befell his predecessor of the Sixteenth Century, of dying before the ultimate demise of the monster he so early found and so valiantly took on. But we will prevail, and on that happy day, if I should still be alive, I know I will be far from alone in remembering Arthur Butz’s signal deed.
When the chambers are filled and closed, there remains in them:
In case the reader has gotten the wrong idea, Elie describes an SS officer with fleshy lips and “the odor of the Angel of Death” who tells everyone they are at Auschwitz… a concentration camp. You can nearly imagine some editor who has advised this, e.g., stop the descriptions making Auschwitz appear like a country club and get back to the evil of those murderous Germans. So now we have Elie reading crime not only on the SS man’s brow, but also in the pupils of his eyes. And we know Elie is not being technical because any book on the human visual system will tell you that the pupil is the aperture in the iris that controls the amount of light entering the eye, where the larger the diameter the more light rays reach the edges of the lens, thereby reducing the quality of the image. Rather than reading evil there, the best that can be inferred is that the SS man’s pupils were dilated because the room was dark. But apart from the dilated pupils, the SS man is certainly focused on his topic of discussion. For he tells them Auschwitz is not a convalescent home. It is a place of work. And if one doesn’t work they will “go straight to the furnace.” Not to the gas chambers, but directly to the crematory! “Work or the crematory…” This is what Elie quotes the SS man as saying. And it is again apparent the mention of gas chambers is avoided in preference to the word “furnace.” Why? Speculation suggests this might be because up until the time of Edith Stein’s beatification in 1987, Elie Wiesel had been attempting to introduce the word “Holocaust” into our vocabulary (from the Hebrew ola, i.e., burnt offering). The twenty-fifth anniversary edition I am reviewing was printed in 1986. Controversy at the time of Edith Stein’s beatification apparently persuaded him to use the word “Shoah” (from Isaiah 47:11, meaning “disaster”).[7] I leave it to the reader to determine if more modern editions mention “gas chambers” in addition to crematories.
The title was pretentious and absurd, and focused far too much energy in attempting to personally discredit the man responsible for writing it by means of character assassination. Beate Klarsfeld, in her self-appointed role as Censor deputatus, perhaps best summed up the intention which prompted the publication when she remarked that Leuchter “has to understand that in denying the Holocaust, he cannot remain unpunished.”[14]
A. I do not know the conditions in Auschwitz, but I think it may be possible. [...]
On July 11, 1941, Niemöller was transferred from Sachsenhausen in the Protestant north to the Dachau Concentration Camp in the Catholic south, where he was housed with three Catholic priests: Johannes Neuhäusler, Nikolaus Jansen and Michael Höck. Daily contact and conversation with these and other clerics in Dachau revived Niemöller. The move to Dachau also increased Niemöller’s popularity abroad. Numerous books exalting his piety and courage were published in the United States in the early 1940s, making Niemöller a world-famous person.[16]
Part Three: Jewish Survivors’ Survey Evidence
The ADL is also actively promoting “Holocaust” historian Deborah Lipstadt to be the U.S. Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism.[40]
Manne was even more scathing about communist jurisprudence: ‘Soviet rules of procedure….. have included threats to witnesses….. defense counsels have had their cross-examinations severely curtailed by the Soviet procurator in charge of proceedings….. the atmosphere… is said to be intimidatory towards witnesses….. witnesses have been prompted by the Soviet procurator in giving answers to critical questions….. [there is at times] no means available for defense counsel to check the identity of witnesses….. [as regards] documents… on several occasions courts have been presented with photocopies and not originals for testing….. forensic experts for the defense have not been allowed to conduct full investigations on the documents….. access to Soviet archives has been refused. The Soviet Union routinely passes on only the documentary evidence it chooses….. KGB forgery [involves]….. an unending production of disinformation documents.’[66]
“At the first Holocaust memorial commemoration in the Capitol Rotunda, both President Jimmy Carter and Vice President Mondale referred to the ‘eleven million victims.’ Carter also used Wiesenthal’s figures of ‘six million Jews and five million others’ in his Executive Order establishing the United States Holocaust Memorial Council. I have attended Holocaust memorial commemorations in places as diverse as synagogues and army forts where eleven candles were lit. More significant is that strangers have repeatedly taken me and other colleagues to task for ignoring the five million non-Jews. When I explain that this is an invented concept, they become convinced of my ethnocentrism (p. 10).”
Tolle apparently believes the “Holocaust” happened simply because it is mentioned repeatedly in the media. He fails to mention the cruel genocidal policies inflicted against Germans after World War II. According to James Bacque’s research, the sum of 1.5 million German POWs, 2.1 million German expellees, and 5.7 million German residents equals an estimated 9.3 million Germans who died needlessly after the war because of Allied policies.[10] Tolle ignores these Allied genocidal policies against Germans while mentioning a nonexistent German policy of genocide against European Jewry.
2. The Chemistry of Auschwitz, by, well, myself.[8] This 440-page book summarizes the documentary situation succinctly (which saves you having to read the 750 pages of the first book mentioned) and forensically evaluates various kinds of material evidence of the purported crime scene.
Kues then makes a very important point. Stangl and Bauer are two men that would have been intimately familiar with the “gas chambers,” as they were in charge of supervising and carrying out the alleged gassings. By the mere fact that these two important “eyewitnesses” produce such divergent testimony on a structure that they should have witnessed, observed and examined very closely for an extended period of time, lends further credence to the Revisionist view that their testimonies on this matter are unreliable. Their testimonies on this matter undermine each other and tend to cancel each other out.[44]
“Obviously, the ever-so-smart shammashim hacks (if you don't know what that means, ask your boss) are unable to perceive the real reason for all this: exposing the liars and fakers!!! Anyone can construct his own personal 'gassing victim', which will then be duly included in the official figure of 'deaths during the Shoah'... all you have to do is access the official site of the Yad Vashem Holocaust Mueseum in Jerusalem, fill out a form, invent the names, places, dates and even the cause of death, of your grandfather, uncle or an acquaintance, ad libitum, and send it off; after a very little while, as if by magic, you'll get a lovely certificate by post which you can print out and have framed... obviously, the name of the 'gassing victim' – which is completely made up – will be included in the official list of Holocaust victims… no family/marital status is required and no inquiry will be made to verify the veracity of the data you supply…if you fill out the form, the number gets blown up like a balloon…this is the seriousness of Holocaust researchers.”…
The ADL's assertion that E. Michael Jones does not himself dispute the Holocaust is now thoroughly obsolete. He began disputing the Holocaust circa publication of the October 2021 issue of his magazine Culture Wars, and seems to have adopted debunking of the Holocaust as a matter of primary importance, mainly because of what he now understands to be the detrimental effect of Holocaust propaganda on the Catholic Church. As of March 2022 his efforts to dispel the Holocaust narrative show no sign of abating.
Photo 7: Alleged Gas Chamber (Krema 1)
Faced with this array of publications that somehow stray from previous positions, the reader begins to feel that there is a kind of quiet redeployment of forces going on behind the scenes, with fictional treatments crowding center stage, and academic works with rather different viewpoints being published away from the public eye. Taking things a little further, the reader wonders about the way in which a revolutionary reassessment might take place, if it ever came to that. He comes to the conclusion that by all means one would try to avoid upsetting the traditional apple-cart and to make this a very much drawn-out affair with a great deal of smoke being generated to cover a more or less orderly retreat. The objective would be to gain as much time as possible for a consolidation of essential acquisitions, but also to relegate the whole matter to the realm of history, hoping that only a few researchers will spend time and energy on these questions. As long as much political or other profit can be reaped from the present state of things, however, there will be a tendency to keep the old ideas alive, in spite of any new evidence. Perhaps this book on Auschwitz is an example of the strain that has developed in this field of history.
This assertion is taken from the Kalendarium of Auschwitz and is inferred from the simple observation that, starting on 4 July 1942[93], the number of inmates registered from a transport is greatly less than the total number of deportees. There is no doubt that the registered inmates were generally able-bodied, but there is nothing to show that the non-able-bodied were gassed. As early as 13 August, SS-Sturmbannführer Rolf Günther sent the SS authorities at Paris a telegram bearing the object “Deportation of Jews to Auschwitz. Separation There of Jewish children“ (Ab(t)ransport von Juden nach Auschwitz. Dort Abschiebung der Judenkinder)[94]. The children were to be evacuated to the Eastern ghettoes. I have also noted that Gisi Fleischmann, well-known Slovakian Zionist leader, in a letter dated 24 March 1943, remarked that some deportation reports mentioned the presence of Belgian Jews at Dęblin-Irena[95] and Końskowola, a village 6 km from Puławy, in the Lublin region, and that these Jews had arrived over the past few weeks; but all the transports of Jews arriving from Belgium by the end of March 1943 had been directed to Auschwitz[96], therefore some of them had continued their trip on to the Lublin region. I will return to this question later.
[xvi] Tiedemann, Herbert, “Babi Yar: Critical Questions and Comments,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 500.
Throughout my reading of this book advocating what might be the most-precious of all rights, I was deafened by a roar in my mind’s ear that only increased as I approached the book’s end. This anti-silence was ear-splitting, or mind-splitting, as I realized that nowhere in all these pages about every kind and shape of censorship imaginable was I going to find the slightest mention of the 800-pound gorilla of the species, the criminalization of “Holocaust denial.” The closest it came to mentioning the elephant in this living room was where he wrote:
A more important question is: who was killed in these gas chambers? If we look at the first table containing deportation transports for whose existence there is at least some documentary evidence, we realize that, until early July 1942, every single person deported to Auschwitz with those transport was properly registered and admitted to the camp. Czech even says so explicitly in a footnote to her entry of March 26, 1942 about the first transport arriving at Auschwitz (from Slovakia), explaining that only individuals fit for labor were sent. This proves that at least until early July 1942, deportees were sent to Auschwitz with the exclusive aim to deploy them as slave laborers. There was no policy of extermination in place.
But if that’s the template, we are just as soon confounded by questions. Who is the Shadow? Is the Shadow David Cole, the once and again infamous “Jewish Holocaust denier” who left an indelible mark on one of the most abominated intellectual movements in modern history? Or is the Shadow David Stein, the titular “Republican Party Animal” who penned influential op-eds while organizing mixers for Hollywood’s “right-wing underground”? Is the Shadow flickering in the multiplicity of lesser pseudonyms and guises the author created as a matter of camouflage or whim as he stood in two circles? Or does the Shadow dwell elsewhere, perhaps in the hearts and minds of those who cast aspersions upon the man in subterfuge?
Here and there, in the text above, we have already looked at the various changes the underground morgues went through in the months before they were finally built as part of Crematoria II and III at Birkenau. If we go to one of the early plans for the new crematorium sketched out by the camp administration (Anatomy…, p. 202/3) we see that there were two morgues one labeled “B-Keller” perpendicular to the furnace hall), the other, “L-Keller” (in line with the furnace hall). It is likely that L-Keller stands for Leichenkeller, corpse cellar i.e. mortuary; B-Keller is not immediately clear, however. In the Anatomy text, the authors of the particular chapter (Pressac and van Pelt) explain that the ”B“ stood for “belüftet“, i.e. aerated, but this is not convincing, because both morgues were aerated in one way or another; also, from a linguistic point of view, this explanation jars uncomfortably.
“DR. THOMA: I have only one more question. Did you know anything regarding the fact that Hitler had decided to solve the Jewish question by the final solution, that is, by the annihilation of the Jews?
Column 7: percentage of deported inmates registered at Auschwitz.
It often happened repeatedly that women hid their little children among their underwear and their clothes and didn’t take them along into the gas chambers. The clothes were searched by the permanent unit of the cremation inmates under the [supervision of] the SS in charge, and any children found that way were afterwards also sent to the gas room. After half an hour, the electric fans in the gassing room were turned on, and the corpses were driven to the cremation furnaces located upstairs using elevators. The cremation of some 2,000 people in 5 furnaces lasted roughly 12 hours. At Auschwitz, there were 2 facilities with 5 double furnaces each and 2 facilities with 4 large furnaces each; furthermore, one temporary facility existed as described earlier. The second temporary facility had been eliminated.
One of the earliest post-war documents about Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp is the so-called prisoners’ report (Häftlingsbericht) authored by Hellmut Bock. The report exists in seven or eight – more or less different – versions. The first version which was presumably completed on 7 May 1945 is now lost, but an English translation has remained.[14] There we read:
Cohen seems to be aware that high temperatures were needed in the gas chamber but his description of Zyklon (which he does not name) is wrong. It implies that it was in the form of ice crystals which melted and turned to gas, whereas it was gypsum granules soaked with hydrogen cyanide that slowly evaporated upon opening the can. Furthermore, he gives two full hours for an execution (followed by two more hours for ventilation), again a realistic figure, but in total contradiction with all the witnesses who speak of only a few minutes up to half an hour at most for the whole procedure.
On June 10, 1939, George VI and his wife, Queen Mary, visited the Roosevelts at Hyde Park. In private conversations with the King, Roosevelt promised full support for Britain in case of war. He intended to set up a zone in the Atlantic to be patrolled by the US Navy, and, according to the King's notes, the president stated that "if he saw a U boat he would sink her at once & wait for the consequences." The biographer of George VI, Wheeler-Bennett, considered that these conversations "contained the germ of the future Bases-for-Destroyers deal, and also of the Lend-Lease Agreement itself."[4] In communicating with the First Lord of the Admiralty, Roosevelt was aware that he was in touch with the one member of Chamberlain's cabinet whose belligerence matched his own.
The late Dr. Wilhelm Stäglich, a former judge who was punished by the German government for his “Holocaust denial,” expressed this dilemma when he stated: “From the outset, the defendants in the ‘Nazi Crimes of Violence’ trials knew that it was utterly pointless to dispute all or part of the picture of the ‘mass murder of the Jews’ in which they were accused of having taken part, since that picture had been inculcated into the public mind long before the trials began. To the defendants it must have seemed the most expedient course not to dispute that the alleged murders occurred, only that they were involved in them. Particularly if they lacked an airtight alibi, the defendants had to secure the goodwill of the court. In short, they had but one aim in mind: their own acquittal.”[108]
The arrivals were taken to a collection point two hundred meters away and there given a friendly reception. After all one had told them in connection with their arrest and departure something about 'resettlement', and one sought by all costs to avoid panic. The work had to be carried out orderly and frictionless in order to ensure the efficiency of the process. From the deportees were confiscated their identity cards, documents, gold and jewelry, as well as the 50 kilos of luggage that each deportee was allowed to bring with him or her for the purpose of 'resettlement': trunks, bags, blankets, kitchen utensils, coats, playthings for the children. One took all of this away from them under the pretense that they would receive new papers and that, for the sake of comfort, the luggage would be forwarded to them. When it was handed over the Germans even handed out receipts, so that many of them actually believed in the resettlement story until their last moment. Then a selection of the deportees took place into those fit and unfit for work. The first group was then divided among various specific professions: electricians, metalworkers, carpenters, tailors, and so on. For the unfit for work the gas vans were standing ready nearby, camouflaged as trailer homes with windows mounted on and mock-up chimneys attached to the roofs. Those fit for work had to carry on working their various professions until they were no longer fit.”[70]
The conclusion of Pressac is mind-boggling: because the documents do not mention the chimerical works imagined by himself, it follows that (!) the case of 3,000 victims never happened! Therefore the “gas chambers” always worked flawlessly!
Fig. 8: “Tarantella for German soldiers” – SS officers attending a folkloric festival on Capri, alleged to be the Blockführers of Sachsenhausen who had been shooters in the Russenaktion. Source: Hamburger Illustrierte, (Spring?) 1942
Holocaust historian Robert Jan van Pelt conceded that the wartime claims that Jews were electrocuted en masse in "electrocution chambers" at the Belzec concentration camp and on "electric conveyor belts" at Auschwitz are falsehoods.[9] If the evidence that "proves" that Jews were electrocuted en masse is bogus, isn’t it also possible that the "evidence" that "proves" that Jews were murdered in "gas chambers" is also bogus, or at least very suspect?
[…] Wiesenthal […] told them that he chose the 5 million number carefully: He wanted a number large enough to attract the attention of non-Jews who might not otherwise care about Jewish suffering, but not larger than the actual number of Jews who were murdered in the Holocaust, 6 million.
This excursus shows the incompetence and the dishonesty of the most acclaimed orthodox holocaust experts regarding the ventilation in the crematoria of Birkenau.
The Sonderkommando mentioned by Grabner was the commission presided over by Dr. Rudolf Mildner, head of the Gestapo at Kattowitz, who arrived at Auschwitz in November 1941 and who therefore had drawn up an initial list of Soviet POWs to be executed as early as the beginning of the second ten-day period of the month. On the basis of his activity, reported in detail ex-Auschwitz inmate and ex-director of the local Museum Kazimierz Smoleńe[78]:
[16] Yahil, Leni, The Holocaust: The Fate of European Jewry, 1932-1945, Oxford University Press, 1990, p. 312.
The greatest skepticism, however, is due when dealing with anecdotal evidence, that is to say, witness accounts. Not only is our human memory very fallible, we are also known to give our stories twists and turns that aren’t always in accordance with the truth. It is therefore of great importance to embed witness statements in a framework of evidence that is more reliable, hence any of the other layers in our pyramid.
The total figure of 100,000 prisoners is too low. Former detainees put the number at 137,000, and it surely did not exceed 150,000. Later, when the Soviets claimed that 100,000 people had perished at Sachsenhausen, they simply doubled the total number of prisoners deported to the camp, now mentioning a figure of 200,000.
The abridged Korherr Report (from April 19, 1943) states that 170,642 Jews had been evacuated “from the Reich territory including the Protectorate and Bialystok district to the East [nach dem Osten]” up to the end of 1942. The reason for the listing of the Białystok district together with the Greater Reich and the Protectorate is doubtless its scheduled annexation to East Prussia. Numerical analysis allows us to draw the conclusion that the figure of 170,642 is comprised of 68,808 Jews sent directly to the eastern territories (Minsk/Maly Trostenets, Riga, Kaunas, Minsk, Raasiku) from November 1941 to November 1942, 35,810 Jews deported from the Altreich, from Austria and the Protectorate into the Lublin district, and 46,591 Jews from the Białystok district.[42] According to Franciszek Piper, some 8,500 Jews from the Białystok district arrived at Auschwitz during this period of time.[43] Some tens of thousands of Jews from the district were deported to Auschwitz also during January/February 1943. Bender writes that “between January 20 and 24, 1943, about 10,000 Jews were deported from Grodno to Auschwitz in five separate transports. […] In late January 1943, about 10,000 Jews from the Pruzhany ghetto were taken in sleighs to the train station, some 12 kilometers away, and sent to Auschwitz in four transports.”[44] A preserved railway transport plan for the period January 20, 1942 to February 18, 1943 has three listed convoys from Białystok to Auschwitz (Pj 107, Pj 109, Pj 111); the number of passengers for the two first is given as 2,000 each, whereas no such figure is provided for Pj 111.[45]
The German officials who “confessed” to the existence of the Sobibor “gas chambers” had a vested legal interest in promoting this falsehood. They could not do otherwise in the judicial system they were entrapped in. Former Sobibor inmates had a burning desire for revenge. For sure, former Sobibor inmate Zelda Metz admitted that: “We [Sobibor inmates] all wanted to escape and tell the world the crimes of Sobibor. We believed that if the people knew about it, Nazi Germany would be wiped out. We thought that if mankind knew of our martyrdom, we would be admired for our endurance, and revered for our sufferings.”[119]
This also helps to explain those who say, “My so-and-so relative(s) died in the Holocaust.” What they mean, most likely, is that they died or went missing during the Nazi era, of causes neither specified nor even actually known. The blame adheres to Hitler by default, and the sympathy to the “bereaved.” Is this reasonable? Clearly not. But until we get details regarding who died, when, and how, we cannot determine the reality of the situation.
The Gestapo relied on the public for information on state enemies. The assumption that denunciation to the Gestapo meant torture and concentration camps is wrong. The Gestapo spent “an exhaustive amount of time” on cases; “most ended up being dismissed, with no charge, or a surprisingly lenient punishment.” The maximum duration allowed for protective custody was 21 days, but the Gestapo tried to resolve matters before that time. Releases from custody were “the norm, not the exception.” McDonough states that the Gestapo followed “very strict legal guidelines.” The Gestapo had a great deal of autonomy within its own structure. Some cases that carried the death penalty “were often dismissed, without charge,” while some that seem trivial might receive harsh punishment. All cases were investigated with thoroughness.8
Cesarani’s emotionally laden appeal naturally overlooks the fact that adults are not children, and should not be treated as children by the paternal, disciplinarian hand of the government. Historical revisionism is in fact a valid method of historical methodology. Neither does “Holocaust” revisionism constitute any threat to octogenarian “Holocaust” survivors; unless he means to imply that they are somehow threatened by the truth. Thus, Cesarani’s attempts to equate “Holocaust” revisionism with racism, hate-mongering, child-endangerment, pornography, and threats to the elderly can only be described as a rather lurid example of what is usually known in the trade as “yellow journalism.”
This would mean that between early October of 1942 (said to have been the start of the gassings) until the end of spring of 1943, some 10 – 12,000 Jews were gassed at Majdanek. The official history maintains that there were three “pure extermination camps” in operation during that period: Treblinka, Sobibor, and (up to November of 1942) Belzec. If we go along with the orthodox historians, the “gas chambers” of Treblinka alone would have allowed the murder of 7,000 people per day[13], which means that the SS could have gassed in the Treblinka “gas chambers” within a day and a half all the Jews allegedly killed at Majdanek over a period of eight months.
Eyewitness testimony at the 1985 Ernst Zündel trial in Toronto also proved to be unreliable. Arnold Friedman, a 56-year-old Hungarian Jew, was touted as an eyewitness to the homicidal gassings at Auschwitz. Friedman testified that while in Auschwitz he saw “fourteen-foot flames” shooting out of the crematorium chimneys. Douglas Christie, Zündel’s defense attorney, showed Friedman scientific evidence that the crematoria at Auschwitz were designed not to give off either smoke, flames, ashes or odors. Friedman eventually agreed with Christie that he might not have witnessed Jews being burned in the crematoria buildings at Auschwitz.[8]
We have noted that gassing chambers are to be arranged also for AREGINAL gassing. Your garrison surgeon has not yet approached us in this matter, but on 9 cr. we received instructions from Reichsarzt-SS und Polizei, the Top Hygienist, to include the additional AREGINAL equipment. No modifications of the gassing chambers are necessary, it is sufficient to install the AREGINAL gassing unit as well. You will receive an appropriate installation drawing when the AREGINAL units have been supplied by the manufacturer. For the sake of completeness, we inform you here that the price of the AREGINAL-unit amounts to RM 27.– and the steel requirements are 12 kilograms.[13]
Michael Marrus, a celebrated academic who has written about Nuremberg, (but only within the greater context of his main career focus of Jewish history)[8], accepts that it did not receive top-billing at the trial. ‘The Holocaust was by no means the centre of attention’ he wrote, ‘Information about it easily could be drowned in the greater flood of crimes and accusations.’[9 ]He struggled to explain this and settled eventually on an argument based on ‘the American leadership’s desire to justify the war to the United States public’ as a result of which ‘officials in Washington accented the first count against the accused, the common plan or conspiracy.’[10] Marrus provided a quote from Jackson to support the USA’s backing for the Conspiracy charge above all others, but the quote mentioned nothing about popular support among the American public. As there are no other sources referenced in that section of the article, it would seem to be the case that Marrus is postulating. Unfortunately, as is so often the case with guesswork, this does little other than demonstrate his own subjectivity. He omits the fact that it was the conspiracy charge that had made the trial possible in the first place. Without the astute creativity of Bernays, it is unlikely that the trial would have happened at all, in the form it eventually took. It is only natural therefore for Jackson to emphasize the point of law on which all the others hang. As the leading force behind the trials, he had to demonstrate that his creation was legitimate. Accentuating the conspiracy element was the only way to do this – if the conspiracy charge had no credibility, then neither did the IMT, or himself. If, on the contrary, justifying entry into the war to the American public had, as Marrus supposes, been Jackson et al’s prime motivation, surely the publication of the Nazis’ genocidal actions would have served the purpose admirably. The between-the-lines sub-plot to Marrus’ article is, of course, that this would not have convinced Joe America of the justness of the war because of the prevalence of anti-Semitic views across the Atlantic. The Germans’ territorial demands of other Northern Europeans were a far more compelling argument to the average Yankee than six million murdered Jews. Such argumentation forms the basis of a sizeable chunk of what is called ‘Holocaust Studies,’ a field populated with subjective individuals and that is ‘replete with nonsense, if not sheer fraud,’[11] according to Finkelstein.
When asked to describe the gas chamber, Taylor replied: “It was rigged up like a shower room with shower nozzles in the ceiling. New prisoners thought they were going in to have their bath. They were stripped and put in this room naked. Then gas came out of the shower nozzles.” Jack Taylor further testified that prussic acid was the gas used to kill inmates in Mauthausen.[4]
"It is a Soviet invention that 240,000 Jews were sent to Latvia and murdered there. To begin with, there was not enough housing in wartime Latvia to accommodate, even on a temporary basis, numbers of that scale. The two larger concentration camps, Salaspils and Mezaparks (Kaiserwald), even after being completed, could accommodate only about 6,000 each. And the Riga Ghetto, after the killing of Latvia's Jews, was never again filled up to its original population of 29,000. A makeshift camp was created in Jumpravmuiza [Jungfernhof], but that housed at its peak no more than 4,000."[114]
According to Auschwitz camp records analyzed by Danuta Czech, more than 12,000 Jews from Regierungsbezirk Zichenau were deported to Auschwitz in at least eight convoys departing between 14 November 1942 and 17 December 1942; 5,000 of these arrivals were registered in the camp. The transports had departed from Płońsk (Plöhnen), Nowy Dwór Mazowiecki, Ciechanów (Zichenau) and Mława (Mielau). Czech further estimates that a total of some 30,000 Jews from the region reached Auschwitz during this period, maintaining that the available records are incomplete.[96] The city of Płońsk is located at a longitude of 20°23′ east, the city of Ciechanów at 20°38′ east. Auschwitz is located at 19°10′42″ east. As can be seen on any large map of Poland, this means that the distance between the longitudes running through these locations was only some 50 to 60 km – hardly a significant detour to the west, considering that the distance Płońsk–Auschwitz is approximately 350 km as the crow flies. In the case of the Zichenau Jews not registered at Auschwitz who continued on to the east – for example to Eastern Galicia, Bessarabia, Transnistria, or Reich Commissariate Ukraine – their detour to the west would have been insignificant.
A final issue is quite intriguing. To what extent did the Soviet secret police and their German counterparts cooperate between 1939 and 1941? Exchanging information, prisoners passed to and fro, etc., in accord with the secret protocols of the 1939 German-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact? Abarinov cites prisoner transfers and even relates an interesting high-profile case[7] in which a German prisoner deported to Germany from the USSR had a suitcase containing his underwear go missing whilst still in Russian hands. Enquiries about this went as high as the Soviet People's Commissar Merkulov—thus indicating a strong spirit of serious cooperation between the two nations. This in turn raises the possibility that information about the Katyn massacres may have been secretly passed to German security officials long before the German invasion of the Soviet Union. There is no evidence for this, it is a speculation only. But supposing it had, the question then raised is why did the Germans only reveal Katyn in the summer of 1943, rather than earlier?
The IMT and later Allied-run war-crimes trials were a travesty of justice organized by Jews who wanted to demonize and convict Germans of murder. These Allied-run trials were politically motivated proceedings that falsely accused Germans of conducting a policy of genocide against European Jewry.
Q. Has this "Original" gas ever been used in concentration camps?
Thies Christophersen was another witness who said that the alleged genocide of Jews during World War II never happened. Christophersen, a Wehrmacht private assigned to Auschwitz, supervised about 300 workers, many of them Jewish, from January to December 1944. On a number of occasions during this period he visited Birkenau where allegedly hundreds of thousands of Jews were being gassed to death. In his memoir The Auschwitz Lie, first published in Germany in 1973, Christophersen wrote that during the time he was at Auschwitz he did not notice the slightest evidence of mass gassings. In March 1988 at the Ernst Zündel trial in Toronto, he also successfully answered numerous pointed questions by the prosecuting attorney about his experiences at Auschwitz.
A problem developed in the negotiations when Chamberlain met with Hitler a second time. Hitler insisted on an immediate German military occupation of regions where the Sudeten Germans were more than half of the population. Hitler also insisted that the claims of the Polish and Hungarian minorities be satisfied before participating in the proposed international guarantee of the new Czechoslovakian frontier. Several days of extreme tension followed. Chamberlain announced on September 28, 1938 to the House of Commons that Hitler had invited him, together with Daladier and Mussolini, to a conference in Munich the following afternoon. The House erupted in an outburst of tremendous enthusiasm.[48]
As we all know, Holocaust books tend to be pretty boring. Graphs, charts, numbers, rambling footnotes—when thrown together, page after page, the literature can be exhausting. Whereas most histories are driven by their narratives, by their tales of life, Holocaust scholarship follows a different path. Because reputable Holocaust histories can't really frame a coherent narrative out of such a mysterious and strangely undocumented event, Holocaust historiography constitutes a unique genre within contemporary history. Of course, Holocaust fans can also get their kicks by reading tales like The Diary of Anne Frank or Elie Wiesel's latest blockbuster. But as we all know, these texts aren't exactly "history": they tell us very little about what really happened to the Jews in the Reich.
Imagine that you are a scientist who has summarized the results of fifteen years of research in a book – and that shortly after publishing this book you are arrested and thrown into prison exactly for this. Imagine further that you are aware with incontrovertible certainty that in the scheduled trial you and your defense attorneys will be forbidden, under threat of prosecution, to prove any factual claims made in that book; that all other motions to introduce supporting evidence will be rejected as well; that all the courts up to the highest appellate will support such conduct; that only a very few of your research colleagues will dare to confirm the legitimacy and quality of your book because they fear similar persecution; but that the efforts of these few colleagues will be in vain as well; and finally that the news media, the so-called “guardians of freedom of speech,” will join the prosecution in demanding your merciless punishment. In such a situation as this, how would you “defend” yourself in court?
The release of the second edition marks the incorporation of Debating into the growing Holocaust Handbooks series of Castle Hill Publishers as Number 32. This incorporation brings with it the signature forest-green cover, attractive layout, punctilious editing and typography and quality printing and binding, along with the mandatory availability in e-book format. My only quibble with the transition is that industry-standard chapter labelling on the recto pages has been dispensed with, as in all recent releases of Holocaust Handbooks. This defect annoyingly hampers use of the book for reference purposes, a purpose I should think central to the purposes of the series, and is at odds with the quality attributes elsewhere in such abundance.
Response to the essay “Holocaust denial and the internet” by Michael Curtis (online at The Commentator, 21 February 2014)[1]
“The first successful escape with this end in mind was made by Alfred Wetzler and Rudolf Vrba, two Slovak Jews who had arrived in Birkenau in spring 1942. On 7 April 1944 they entered the partly built extension of Birkenau known as ‘Mexico’ and concealed themselves under a pile of timber. Their carefully thought-out plan was to remain in the hideout for three days until the Germans lifted the blockade around the camp that customarily trapped escapees. When the hue and cry died down, they made their move. Wetzler took with him the label from a can of Zyklon-B obtained at great risk by Filip Müller. Vrba, who had worked in the Canada compound for over a year and then in the registry office of the quarantine camp, carried in his head an astonishingly accurate summary of arrivals and the number of those murdered. After a walk lasting eleven days the pair reached Slovakia and made contact with the Jewish community, passing on all they knew and urging the Slovak Jewish leadership to inform the world.” (p. 743)
So, if that gas chamber wasn’t what we are told, or at least wasn’t used at all for mass executions, why were there massive amounts of clothes hanging in its vicinity when the Americans arrived?
A year later The New York Times ran an article from Oswiecim (Auschwitz) which is worth quoting liberally:[12]
Germar Rudolf writes in regard to Tauber’s testimony: “Several hundred people, locked into a cellar with a very small surface area, anticipating death, would panic and attempt to escape, damaging everything that stood in their way…If these columns actually existed, their outer framework would have to have been of solid steel, but certainly not of fragile wire mesh construction.”[18] Tauber’s testimony concerning wire mesh in the gas chambers is simply not credible.
The logical consequence to be taken from all that has been considered above is that “gassings” of 1,500 or even of 1,000 or even of some hundreds of persons never took place. However, because the reality of homicidal “gassings” is claimed only by witness statements, and these always adduce numbers well above 1,500; and because there would have been well over 1,500 gassing victims in each claimed batch due to the high number of Jewish transports arriving in Auschwitz, it can only be deduced that the claimed “gassings” described by witnesses as simple operations without dangers were impossible, and therefore they were not real.
On the conventional view, the answers are clear: Hitler intended all along, and secretly, to kill the Jews of Europe. The Nazis constructed the means to do so, primarily in their system of ghettos, killing squads (the Einsatzgruppen), and in the six death camps, each of which was equipped with the infamous gas chambers. And yes, we are assured; 6 million were actually killed. “The round figure of 6 million admits of no serious doubt.”
Exterminationists offer a wide variety of means by which millions of human cadavers, victims of the so-called Holocaust, are said to have been disposed, ranging from stationary or portable crematoria to pyre burning, but the version currently offered by the Treblinka Museum on their website is perhaps the most ludicrous of them all. The museum claims that 800,000 alleged victims were burned on grates made of rails, with brushwood as the source of energy. The brushwood necessary to fuel those pyres was allegedly collected in nearby forests, or was simply somehow miraculously available in sufficient quantities during the first half of 1943, when the claimed Treblinka victims are said to have been cremated. In this paper, the authors attempt to describe this operation, with strong emphasis on the logistics needed.
It is not worth responding to accusations apparently arising from crude ignorance, which extends even to basic notions of current orthodox Holocaust historiography, as I will show below. It is worthwhile, however, to highlight Paskuly’s statement that the former commander of Auschwitz “fails to mention that the camp regulations and punishments were formulated by Höss himself” (ibid., p. 22), where he confounds Höss’s Crakow writing titled “Lagerordnung für die Konzentrationslager”[1] (translated by Paskuly as “Rules and Regulations for Concentration Camps”; ibid., pp. 209-218), which Höss had jotted down from memory (see Chapter III.1.), with the 1941 “Dienstvor­schrift für Konzentrationslager (Lagerordnung)” (“Service Regulations for Concentration Camps (Camp Regulations)”), of which only the title page and the table of contents are known.[2]
But according to the orthodox narrative, those arriving at the camp who were allegedly selected for the gas chambers were not registered anywhere. If people who had been selected were “meticulously” registered, that can only mean they were not about to enter a gas chamber. As for special treatment, and the word special in general, it appears on many documents that have nothing to do with killings.[2] Kounio also writes:
The most-salient point of comparison is indeed a difference: the assault on clerical concupiscence begun by the Boston Globe in 2001 has been won, hands-down, by the attackers of the taboo. The decades-long assault on the towering edifice of the Holocaust, on the other hand, today faces counter-assaults, legal, financial, reputational, and physical stiffer not only than they ever have been in the past, but more-draconian by far than any brought to light against the heroes of the film here reviewed. Indeed, to find doctrinal enforcement comparable to that imposed on Holocaust revisionists today, one has to go back to the times of the Inquisition, a project, ironically, of that very Catholic Church that plays the loser in the drama depicted in the film.
In 1978-1979 I disclosed the results of my research. I was physically assaulted. Le Monde reported the assault but revealed nothing of my arguments with which, however, it was acquainted, since for four years I had spelt them out in submissions for articles or in letters that I had never been able to get published. Using the “right of reply” to the article on my assault, I asked the newspaper to print at last my two pages on “The Rumor of Auschwitz,”[11] which it did on December 29, 1978. There ensued a flood of reactions and articles, both in France and abroad, as well as a big legal case against me for “personal injury” through “falsification of history.” On January 16, 1979,[12] again using my right of reply, I published a follow-up to “The Rumor of Auschwitz,” in which I again put emphasis on the fact that belief in the alleged gas chambers ran into material or technical impossibilities, and that none of the testimonies invoked allowed one to conclude that those gas chambers had existed. The most important reply to my findings appeared on February 21, 1979. It was a declaration endorsed by 34 historians (see above). That declaration, which René Rémond refused to sign, amounted to running away from the difficulty of having to answer me; besides, from the time of the Nuremberg trials up to the present day never has a single forensic study describing the murder weapon and its operation been produced.
What's next in this debate? The bloggers have indicated that they will produce a new edition of their work, but not a direct reply. This evasion is unfortunate, and highlights their overarching focus on rhetoric: they would be unable to maintain their rhetorical momentum and polemical style in a direct reply, and therefore they avoid such an encounter. But just as the bloggers dictated a series of conditions necessary for them to take a revisionist response to their work into consideration, so too must they meet certain standards if they expect their updated work to be taken seriously. First, their work must actually be about the camps Belzec, Sobibor, and Treblinka. For them to write another work that shirks discussing the camps themselves in favor of building a circumstantial case that they “must have been” extermination centers equipped with homicidal gas chambers on the basis of events that took place far outside the camps will be, to borrow one of the bloggers' favorite phrases, an automatic fail.
[1] Rudolf, Germar, “Some Technical and Chemical Considerations about the ‘Gas Chambers’ of Auschwitz and Birkenau,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, pp. 363-371.
There is no way of knowing how many corpses were cremated in the course of the operation—hundreds of thousands, certainly, possibly even millions. But millions of corpses remained in the pits in which they had been buried. This tangible evidence—the corpses of millions of Jews and non-Jews, murdered by Nazi Germany and its collaborators in the occupied Soviet territories—remained for posterity. In its main objective—destroying the evidence of mass murder—Aktion 1005 failed.”
The argument that perhaps the witnesses are wrong, and only a fraction of the corpses were burned, does not hold up, since the Soviet and Polish forensic examinations carried out in the period 1944-1945 would then have discovered hundreds of thousands of unincinerated corpses at the former camp site and subsequently announced their findings to the world as the ultimate proof of “German-Fascist” barbarism. Needless to say, they didn’t.[40] There only remains the conclusion that a small percentage of the Jewish deportees died en route to the camp and that the remainder where sent somewhere else, most of them likely to occupied USSR territory. The witness Richard Glazar has thus inadvertently helped confirm the revisionist hypothesis that Treblinka II was a transit camp.
The contrast between Irving and Lipstadt throughout the trial could not have been more stark.  Irving served as his own attorney and spoke at length about a plethora of subjects. His closing speech alone runs to 39 pages.8 Lipstadt did not speak during the trial. She never took the stand. While many argued that she feared being decimated on the details and facts of the Holocaust by Irving, her behavior should not have been a surprise.
In the first part, we will briefly discuss what science is, and how we can distinguish it from fake science, pretend science, or, to put it in Greek, pseudo-science. In the second part, we will briefly address Lipstadt’s exposé of the evil denier’s motives and their allegedly mendacious methods, while the third part discusses some of Lipstadt’s claims about a few Holocaust deniers, or Holocaust revisionists, as they call themselves. In the last part, we will focus on some factual arguments proffered by Dr. Lipstadt about the Holocaust.
On May 8 former Sobibór SS Erich Bauer, accused of having been in charge of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at that camp, is given a death sentence by a West Berlin court. The sentence is later commuted to life in prison. On August 25, a Frankfurt court sentences former Sobibór SS Hubert Gomerski to life imprisonment, while another former guard, Johann Klier, is released. Those early trials of former Aktion Reinhardt personnel goes virtually unmentioned in the press.
Already in 1987, I published a book dedicated to Höss’s various post-war statements (Mattogno 1987). It listed 60 objections characterized by internal contradictions and insurmountable contradictions to the orthodox holocaust narrative of that time, thus showing that “the former commander of Auschwitz lied on all essential points of his ‘eye-witness testimony,’ which must therefore be rejected as a vulgar fraud.” The tortures inflicted by the British on Höss at the time, which in 1987 had already been documented, were therefore not mentioned a priori in order to invalidate Höss’s declarations, but a posteriori in order to explain the contradictions and absurdities found in his statements.
Evidence was also presented that many of the defendants at the Dachau trial made their confessions after being tortured. For example, defendant Johann Kick testified:[26]
In 1993, as the case against Demjanjuk was falling apart, an Israeli prosecutor close to the case acknowledged a political motive for continuing the campaign. “So the important thing now is at least to prove that Demjanjuk was part of the Nazi extermination machine…otherwise…we will be making a great contribution to the new world-wide movement of those who deny the Holocaust took place.”[126]
Phase One of this process, mass ghettoization, sufficed for nearly two years. Over this time, perhaps 100,000 Jews died, most of natural causes. Concentration ultimately led to an increase in typhus and other communicable diseases, and thus the Germans implemented a rigorous system of disinfestation: shaving and showering inmates, and gassing their belongings with cyanide. This was not always successful; many thousands more died in transit or at the various concentration camps where they were temporarily interned.
British historian Ian Kershaw states that when the Soviet archives were opened in the early 1990s: “Predictably, a written order by Hitler for the ‘Final Solution’ was not found. The presumption that a single, explicit written order had ever been given had long been dismissed by most historians.”[20] Thus, neither the Wannsee Conference nor any written document indicates a plan by National-Socialist Germany to exterminate Jews.
Claims by gay activists and their supporters for the number of homosexuals killed by the Third Reich reach as high as one million, and assertions that it was a quarter of a million or half a million are common. The actual number of gays who died or were killed in the camps appears to be around five thousand, conceivably as high as ten thousand. But unlike other groups that wanted to be recognized as victims of the Holocaust, gays do have political and cultural resources …
l’existence d’un ou plusieurs crimes contre l’humanité tels qu’ils sont définis par l’article 6 du statut du tribunal militaire international annexé à l’accord de Londres du 8 août 1945.
As a result of his outspoken criticism of Zionism as a form of racism and his unabashed defense of accused “Holocaust denier,” Roger Garaudy, the Abbé was “punished” by being excluded from the “International League against Racism and Anti-Semitism.” Facing mounting criticism from his colleagues in France, Abbé Pierre was forced to seek refuge for a time in a monastery in northern Italy. During the Abbe’s self-imposed exile, Roger Garaudy rose to his defense and drafted a thirty-eight-page treatise entitled, “Response to the Media’s Lynching of Abbé Pierre and Roger Garaudy.”
Van Pelt’s work is not, in the academic sense, a treatise based on a coherent progression of hypotheses and arguments that eventually arrives at a conclusion. It is, rather, a composite structure of many elements, no single one of which is really conclusive in itself or indispensable to the whole case. The author presents them to us and then selects from them individual traces which, when he views them as a whole, amount to some sort of evidence, a “convergence” of proof.
Q: Do you seriously want this Tribunal to understand from your testimony that you were fighting for France but you didn’t know which army you were in?
Notwithstanding the above, mortality in the Gypsy camp was very high, but from this indubitable fact the Holocaust historiography draws the improper conclusion that the privileges described above – as asserted by Franciszek Piper – were simply a “measure of camouflage”:
Black blames IBM for providing the machinery which enabled Nazi Germany to implement the Holocaust. He writes:[26]
In most cases one can see, faintly, evidence of rework to the ceiling after the ‘shower heads’ were installed—see Photo 7.
One can imagine what visitors learn of all this when they see the camp today. Entrance is free and there are no official guides, so various groups pass through with various self-appointed ‘expert’ guides. However, when it comes to the crematorium (Barrack X), there seems to be a set routine. The group gathers outside the building as the guide briefly explains the ‘assembly-line process’ of undressing, gassing, cremating, etc. He then sends them in at one end, and they pass through the several rooms of the building (see again the floor plan in Photo 2), emerging from the furnace room, where the guide is dutifully waiting. No guide accompanies the groups inside—all the better to avoid any pointed and difficult questions that may arise. Perhaps it was a coincidence, but in the several hours that I was in the chamber and building, not one guide entered the gas chamber.
Camp 4 was designated the "tent camp," which was located directly behind the "Star Camp." Accommodations for these unfortunate people consisted of twelve large tents which had been erected in August 1944, when the Reich began moving thousands of female prisoners westward from camps in the East. The first large transport of female prisoners that arrived at Belsen had been transferred from Auschwitz and Warsaw sometime between August and November 1944, and were interned in this section of the camp. Eventually these tents were completely destroyed during a furious wind storm which occurred on November 7 and 8, after which the women were either transferred to the Star Camp or sent on to work camps in northern Germany.
Not only the description is vague but the story about a newly built road right from the railway ramp to the gas chambers makes no sense. In fact, the railway line itself was extended in early 1944 to enter the camp alongside the camp’s main road, there forming a new ramp. It ended right next to Crematoria II and III at the western end of the main road. It’s clear that Kounio is repeating mere hearsay. She admits it herself:
And here Elie makes another of those less than laudatory revelations. For he tells us he has followed the crowd from where his father was resting at the hillock, where he pleaded with his father to arise and get himself washed before going to the blocks, but left him during the alert to go inside to sleep, not troubling with him further. The father, meanwhile, during the alert and after, was left outside in the snow! On the brink of death. Abandoned. Only on the following day does Elie go back to look for him. This man, this father whose hand he held just the day before when forming up at Buchenwald’s assembly place, not wanting to lose him! But now he has already abandoned him to his fate while he slept inside and confesses as he goes to seek him he in fact doesn’t want to find him, instead wishing he could “get rid of this dead weight” so he could use all his strength to struggle for his own survival. What happened over the past 12 hours to bring about this change of attitude? Elie has now rested, has been relatively comfortable and has presumably nourished himself from the cauldrons of soup that were at the entrance to the block, but now instead of being refreshed and invigorated, more generous of spirit, is afflicted by avarice and lack of familial fidelity. He tells us he is ashamed for these thoughts, but still it is puzzling, if not disturbing. Now, searching for his father, he finds him at a block where black coffee is being served. Elie gets his father some coffee, asks a number of questions, then says he cannot stay long because the place is to be cleaned and only the sick are allowed to remain. And in the background we begin to comprehend it was the Germans who did what Elie did not, and that is get his father inside, out of the weather, where he could be sheltered and allowed to survive. And it is another blow, a small one to be sure, adding to an overall picture that the Germans have something else in mind than a systematic plan to kill Jews, even sick ones.
Provided disinterred bodies were indeed burned on pyres, as is claimed for the Yanov camp and other places, the cremated bones would not have burned completely, and the cremation would have produced large amounts of wood ashes. The larger bones would still have been easily recognizable as human remains. According to the Soviet prosecution at Nuremberg, about 40,000 bodies were disinterred and subsequently incinerated on pyres at the Yanov camp. Since the purpose of this operation is supposed to have been the “traceless” disposal of the corpses, it would have been necessary to sieve and crush the bigger bones. Regardless of whether the Soviet claims were true or atrocity propaganda, the “bone mill” would have been an indispensable part of any mass cremation on pyres, and we realize the importance of such a machine for the credibility of the whole “pyre story”. But what evidence did Soviet prosecutor Smirnov adduce at Nuremberg? In order to prove the existence of such a device, he produced the testimonies of three former Jewish prisoners, three photographs and the report of a local Soviet investigative commission.[11]
Those who oppose them, particularly in the ambit of this Holocaust matter, may have managed, indeed, to disguise themselves in the various cloaks under which the casual observer might infer, however indistinctly, the forces of righteousness, or of opposition to racism, or discrimination, or some other of the principles of civilization to which the virtuously inclined might fancy themselves to be devoted.
At any rate, church attendance actually increased under the Nazis. Hess pointed out “a religion that has influence, indeed dominated, the life of the people for two thousand years cannot be overcome by external measures and certainly not by superficial ridicule.” In September 1939 church leaders declared their total commitment to German victory,48 but those such as Heydrich maintained their anti-church position. In 1939 the biggest confrontation between the regime and the church involved euthanasia, and it was an issue that saw the regime backing off. In 1941 actions against the church were officially discontinued, but suspicion remained as to loyalties. The aim was to keep the church from exercising its prior political influence.49
RESTRICTED. CONFIRMING TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BENTHAM GREEN/ASHTON HILL RE GIFTGAS CASE AND DOCTOR TESCH. WILHELM POOK NOW REPORTED ARRIVED HAMBURG 23 NOV ADDRESS ALTONA STRESEMANNSTRASSE 71 BEI FAMILY MEYER. PLEASE ARRANGE IMMEDIATELY INVESTIGATION FOR CORROBORATION OF EVIDENCE OF EMIL SEHM AND REPORT ACCORDINGLY[67]
At the time when Holocaust appeared, the State of Israel was subject to unprecedented criticism. The Israeli Prime Minister elected in 1977, Menachem Begin, was a hardliner and former terrorist. Meanwhile there was intensified criticism of the State of Israel in the Democratic Party, which happened to hold the White House at the time. (It was this shift in attitudes in the Democratic Party of that era that motivated the defection of Neoconservative Jews to the GOP.) Under these circumstances the Holocaust miniseries was created to justify the existence of the State of Israel and to excuse its violence.
At first sight, the shortness and vagueness of the passages about the (alleged) shooting of 13,000 – 14,000 Soviet prisoners of war seems inexplicable, especially if one considers that as early as in May/June 1945 former inmates of the Sachsenhausen camp had described the so-called ”Russenaktion” in the most horrific way. We have already mentioned the Häftlingsbericht[49] which was submitted to the special commission on 12 June 1945. Had the ESC in Moscow perhaps not read these reports, or did they doubt the veracity of such ”eyewitness testimony”? In our opinion, there is a simple explanation for this seeming paradox. From Stalin’s point of view, the hundreds of thousands of Soviet soldiers who, instead of doing their duty and fighting to the last cartridge, had surrendered to the Germans in the summer and autumn of 1945 were nothing but despicable traitors. After the war the ”liberated“ soldiers of the Red Army were subject to the most severe scrutiny; many of them were deported to the camps of the Gulag[50]. As a matter of fact, Soviet post-war propaganda shuns the subject and does not express the slightest sympathy for their captured countrymen.
According to Holocaust historians, the bodies of Jews gassed at the Aktion Reinhardt camps were first buried in mass graves. The bodies were later exhumed and burned in the open air.[23]
Many other precise material details exclude the possibility of the German authorities’ having pursued a policy to exterminate the Jews, but I think the very strongest evidence of the non-existence of such a policy lies in the fact that, during the war, the murder of a sole Jewish man or woman by a German ran the latter the risk of a sentence up to the death penalty, and execution. For lack of space here, I refer the reader to the text of a talk on this subject that I gave in 2002 entitled “Punishment of Germans, by Third Reich Authorities, for Mistreatment of Jews (1939-1945)” (http://robertfaurisson.blogspot.com/2002/06/punishment-of-germans-by-third-reich.html).
But for cases where the impermissible thoughts have already been expressed (published, spoken, or uploaded), there is yet another evil device in the censor’s torture chamber, known technically as censorship after the fact. One case of this form of censorship is described in detail in Prof. Dan McGowan’s article, also in this issue, in which a gang of his former colleagues at Hobart and William Smith Colleges punished him by circulating an e-mail that called for withdrawal of Dr. McGowan’s emeritus professorship at their institution. He further cites (or recites, actually, verbatim), Laird Wilcox’s eight Elements of Ritual Defamation, which represents the archetype of a form of punishment by which censorship after the fact is commonly practiced. Ritual defamation, as Wilcox originally explained in his 1990 essay, “… is the destruction or attempted destruction of the reputation, status, character or standing in the community of a person or group of persons by unfair, wrongful, or malicious speech or publication.” My own term for the crime is “reputational terrorism.”
Had the Germans planned the physical extermination of the Jewish population, they would of course have killed children and old people first; able-bodied adults would perhaps have been temporarily spared, because they could have been used as slave-laborers. As a matter of fact, solid documentary evidence shows that Jewish children and old people were not exterminated. The following four examples will illustrate this:
[9] Richard J. Green. “The Chemistry of Auschwitz,” 10 May 1998, p. 18. http://phdn.org/archives/holocaust-history.org/auschwitz/chemistry/.
In the meantime the propagandists in Moscow had become aware of the so-called “Ziereis confession” – the protocol of an interrogation of the former commandant of Mauthausen concentration camp, SS-Standartenführer [Lt. Colonel] Franz Ziereis who was questioned by the Americans before his death. The interrogation took place in the hospital of the satellite camp Gusen on 24 May 1945.[29] Ziereis, who according to the minutes had been “wounded by two shots in the belly and the left arm” was lying on a camp bed which was to become his deathbed as he was denied medical assistance (illustration 5, illustration 6). The minutes state that Ziereis had fled to a hunting lodge near Spital am Phyrn (Traunviertel/Upper Austria) where he was tracked down and wounded by US soldiers. According to other reports he wanted to surrender the camp on 8 May 1945 whereupon he was shot without the slightest provocation. All reports about the arrest and the shooting of Ziereis and about the circumstances of his interrogation on his deathbed are contradictory and unreliable; fundamental questions remain unanswered.
Unsurprisingly, Gypsies were affected by Germany’s actions against vagabonds and other “asocial” elements. However, Gypsies were not treated in an undifferentiated manner, despite the references McDonough cites on the “Gypsy plague” etc.  “Pure Gypsies” and travellers were exempted from internment at Auschwitz, which began in 1943. Those who agreed to sterilization were also exempted. They were in large part regarded as having descended from Aryans. Bormann opposed Himmler’s exemption policy and appealed to Hitler, who backed Himmler.100 Carlo Mattogno gives a wider view of the Gypsy policies. He shows that there were wide criteria for exemptions from deportation, including Gypsies of pure race, good racial crossings, those who had fixed employment and accommodation, servicemen and ex-servicemen. Families who were deported were kept together. They were not forced to work and could keep their own clothes, valuables and money. There were efforts to maintain rations on the same level as those of German citizens. At the request of Dr. Mengele a nursery was established at Auschwitz and other facilities for children and mothers. 101
[17] Ernst Gauss (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust, Theses & Dissertations Press, Capshaw, Ala., 2000, p. 143; Germar Rudolf (ed.), ibid., Chicago, 2003, p. 143.
“That evil has a name: The Holocaust. A systematic mass murder meticulously planned and executed by Nazi Germany that brutally wiped millions of people off the face of the earth. More than six million of those human beings were Jewish.”
Bernard Clarke was not the only Jew who tortured Germans to obtain confessions. Tuviah Friedman, for example, was a Polish Jew who survived the German concentration camps. Friedman by his own admission beat up to 20 German prisoners a day to obtain confessions and weed out SS officers. Friedman stated that “It gave me satisfaction. I wanted to see if they would cry or beg for mercy.”[18]
There is an honoured scientific tradition of the experimentum crucis, or key experiment, whereby the choice between conflicting theories is decisively resolved: what would it be in this case? Has it already been performed? Ideally we would like to see a virtual reality reconstruction of the several chambers and walls here discussed, showing where old, “genuine” brickwork is located and the various points of sampling to-date, whereby different groups could debate and agree upon where any further sampling should be conducted.
• Nous avons vu aussi que la banque contenait la preuve de ce que le gazage des Juifs à Auschwitz était un mythe. Ainsi, des enfants du ghetto de Lodz prétendument gazés à Auschwitz ont été retrouvés vivants après la guerre: ils n'avaient fait que transiter par Auschwitz.
Finally, according to J. Sackar, the new members of the "Sonderkommando" did not work at the "Bunker", but limited themselves to watching, while for Venezia they were compelled to remove the bodies from the gas chamber and throw them into a burning pit; for L. Cohen, by contrast, they had to arrange them in layers in an empty pit.
This claim is repeated on the “HistoryWiz” web site “The Final Solution”. The photograph is captioned:[41]
Joseph Burg also testified at the 1988 Zündel trial that he spoke to hundreds of people who serviced and operated the crematoria, but he could not find anyone who had operated homicidal gas chambers. Burg testified that the crematoria had been established for hygienic purposes as a result of typhus and other diseases. Burg also testified that he attended the Nuremberg trials in 1946 and met Ilya Ehrenburg, who had visited Auschwitz-Birkenau, as well as a Jewish publisher who had been interned in Auschwitz for several years. Both Ehrenburg and the Jewish publisher said they did not see any homicidal gas chambers while at Auschwitz-Birkenau.[20]
Eventually, by the 1970s, the Dachau museum admitted that the “gas chamber” was never used. The fact that the “phony shower heads” were created by the army prior to the visit of U.S. dignitaries in ’45 is the biggest open secret in the field. The current claim at Dachau is that the room was “decorated” with dummy shower heads, which replaced the real shower heads and thus made them useless, in order to fool the victims, and once they were inside, gas pellets were thrown in from chutes in the side wall. And the half-measure “revision,” that the chamber was “never used,” really needs to be meditated on for a moment to grasp its stupidity. We’re supposed to believe that the Nazis took a working—and very necessary—group shower room at the camp, and replaced the working shower heads with fake ones, because they wanted to fool the victims into thinking they were walking into a shower room, which they would have thought anyway if the original shower heads had simply been left intact, and then the Nazis decided not to ever use the gas chamber, but now the room was unusable as an actual shower because the real shower heads had been replaced by fake ones, fake ones that were supposedly necessary to fool victims into thinking that they were walking into a shower room which is exactly what the victims would have thought they were walking into without the fake shower heads because the room actually was a shower room which could have still been used as one in between gassings if not for the dummy heads that replaced the genuine ones.
Solzhenitsyn warned of “a rampant danger: the suppression of information between the parts of the planet.” He also warned against reliance on the United Nations Organization, which, of course, has, since his time, sided with the oppressors of Holocaust revisionism. He saw the UNO as “a United Governments Organization” which has betrayed many peoples subject to governments which they have not chosen.
Two: Many times being a properly trained historian is not nearly enough. When a plane crashes, we do not turn to historians for answers. It’s the job of the qualified investigators to find out what happened. The same is true for any event. The situation may call for a trained chemist, physicist, doctor, archaeologist, navigator, engineer, geologist, astronomer, etc. Not only do orthodox Holocaust historians possess none of these qualifications, they never even bother with such things. They are, as Dr. Faurisson put it, only paper historians.
Motions to introduce evidence that there is notable public objection to common knowledge are likewise and nonetheless barred on grounds of self-evidence.[25]
And if they do, Angela Merkel will surely be off somewhere safe, perhaps in America with Ayaan Hirsi Ali, ex-Muslim ex-member of parliament of the Netherlands, or elsewhere. But there will, as before, be blood in the streets. There will be concentration camps. Innocents will die, in great numbers.
And so well-served by its beneficiaries is the specter of the Holocaust that it grows with the passage of time, attracting ever more adulation from the masses stricken with the guilt of having been spared it themselves and being the offspring of parents similarly so spared. It is this process that has led to the vast proportions of the Juggernaut of Conscience as it rumbles over the fields of today’s humanity, increasing in weight and speed as it cuts an ever-wider swath among the unworthy fortunate.
Document 38 depicts visually the “gas chamber” with the layer of corpses of approx. 87 cm in height.
On May 11, 2009, Demjanjuk was deported from Cleveland to be tried in Germany. On May 12, 2011, Demjanjuk was convicted by a German criminal court as an accessory to the murder of 27,900 people at Sobibór, and sentenced to five years in prison. No evidence was presented at Demjanjuk’s trial linking him to specific crimes. Instead, Demjanjuk was convicted under a new line of German legal thinking that a person who served at an alleged death camp can be charged as an accessory to murder because the camp’s sole function was to kill people. No proof of participation in a specific crime is required. Demjanjuk died in Germany before his appeal could be heard by a German Appellate Court.[37]
During the trial of British historian David Irving’s libel action against Deborah Lipstadt in 2000 (now dramatized in the Hollywood ﬁlm Denial) some of Cavendish-Bentinck’s remarks were raised by Irving as justiﬁcation of his claim that the gas chamber story originated as a propaganda lie. In his judgment against Irving, Mr. Justice Gray accepted the counter-arguments of Lipstadt’s defense team. Their interpretation has since appeared in a book by Prof. Sir Richard Evans, who was among Lipstadt’s defense witnesses.
In short, the most powerful political forces on this planet (both Jewish and non-Jewish) in combination with the enormous influence of the mass communications industry in modern life have, to this day, insured the success of the Holocaust mythology.
Part II of the book is brief: three short chapters addressing the T4 'euthanasia' program and the initiation of Jewish deportations in 1939 and 1940. About 1.7 million Polish Jews came under German control in late 1939, which was a huge increase over the (by then) roughly 250,000 Jews in the expanded Reich. This demanded a major reassessment of the Jewish Question. Longerich identifies four progressive phases in this process: (1) initial plans, in September and October 1939, for a Judenreservat (Jewish reservation) in Poland; (2) deportations into the General Government, combined with ghettoization and accelerated emigration, in the period November 1939 to March 1940; (3) development of the Madagascar plan (June to October 1940); and (4) deportations to unidentified areas in "the East," from November 1940 on.
Dutch-Jewish historian Robert Jan van Pelt noted that the falsehood that four million people were murdered at Auschwitz was originally “established” by the Soviets, and then later used by the communist rulers of Poland for their own political goal of laying claim to formerly German territories. He wrote: "As relations between the East and West deteriorated after the war, with the largest part of Germany becoming part of NATO and with that country refusing to recognize the legitimacy of postwar Polish annexation of the former German territories of East Prussia, Pomerania, and Silesia, the number of victims [at Auschwitz concentration camp] became a political issue. The communist rulers of Poland were unwilling to give an inch on their claims against Germany as long as the Bonn government did not recognize the territorial integrity of the People’s Republic of Poland, and therefore they continued to maintain, as a matter of policy, that 4 million people had been killed in Auschwitz."[78]
Professor Lynn discussed the results of a study of New Guinean “high school and university students aged 16 to 19 years who had been selected by competitive examination for secondary school and college and had at least nine years of schooling.” The results indicated that the group as a whole had about the mental age of European 10-year-olds.[59] Nor can Diamond fall back upon the slogan that “the New Guineans really are more intelligent than Europeans, but the intelligence tests are biased against them.” Professor Lynn cites the evidence that shows this to be incorrect.[60]
In addition to Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka, Irving also visited Auschwitz and Majdanek. Apparently he did not visit the sixth alleged “extermination camp,” Chelmno (Kulmhof). On his website[11], he published an account of his trip to Poland which struck me by its superficiality and its vagueness. It was impossible to deduce from this account whether Irving believed that homicidal gassings had taken place at Auschwitz and Majdanek. As far as the three “Aktion Reinhardt” camps were concerned, he seemed to endorse the “extermination camp” version; on the other hand, he spoke of the “alleged gas chambers” of these camps. In other words: He avoided making clear and unequivocal statements.
3. My ritual defamers’ claim that “Holocaust denial carries absolutely no weight among academic scholars in any field whatsoever” was also untrue. There are a number of scholars who dare to criticize the typical Holocaust narrative and are willing to fight the slime hurled at them by ardent Zionists who feel it their duty to protect the current version that serves as the sword and shield of apartheid Israel. (As a footnote, our former provost and former dean of women (both Jewish) demanded that I not use the word “apartheid” in connection with Israel. Although the term was used in the Israeli press and later by ex-President Jimmy Carter, they did not consider it to be “suitable discourse” on our campus where, ironically, we routinely claim to support free speech and diversity of opinion.)
Prosecutor Hausner was intent on proving that Eichmann, in addition to being a seminal figure behind the alleged Nazi plan to murder European Jewry, was also guilty of committing murder with his own hands. He was accused of shooting a child who tried to steal fruit from an orchard outside his villa in Hungary during the war (p. 99). An alleged eyewitness to the “murder” testified against Eichmann. Lipstadt then makes this eye-opening revelation: “Ultimately, Hausner’s efforts regarding the murder were thwarted when questions posed by both Servatius [Eichmann’s defense attorney] and the judges proved that Avraham Gordon, whom Hausner called as the witness to the murder, could not have observed it (p. 99).” We can now add Mr. Gordon to the long list of other “Holocaust survivors” who gave false testimony.
“State Secretary Dr. Buehler stated that the General Government would welcome it if the final solution of this problem could be begun in the General Government, since on the one hand transportation does not play such a large role here nor would problems of labor supply hamper this action. Jews must be removed from the territory of the General Government as quickly as possible, since it is especially here that the Jew as an epidemic carrier represents an extreme danger and on the other hand he is causing permanent chaos in the economic structure of the country through continued black market dealings.”
As of August 20, 2012, the state of things is disastrous for the upholders of the official version and altogether positive for the revisionists. The former have all power at their disposal, including the public forces, with the politicians, judges and police, and especially with the obedient journalists. Whereas only a category of judges has proved servile, the journalists, with rare exceptions, have rushed headlong into utter servility. As for the professors, academics, intellectuals with influence, too many have distinguished themselves only by blindness or cowardice. When the day comes and it is finally time to admit that the alleged Nazi gas chambers never existed any more than Jewish soap or Saddam Hussein’s weapons of mass destruction, will decent people, in their dismay, call the “elites” to account? They ought to do so, but will steer clear of it. For, in this case – one of the most serious frauds that history has ever known – the “elites” have, after all, only been the mirror image of their public. When we reread Céline,[19] we see that he said everything there was to say on the subject, without illusions, without bitterness, with no call for vengeance, no sense of being above the rest of us: as a man, quite simply, and sometimes with a smile of indulgence.
The messages from Auschwitz, the largest camp, with 20,000 inmates,[4] mention disease as the chief cause of death, but also include references to executions by hanging and shooting. The decoded messages contain no references to gassings.[5]
In 1944, other pesticides were used in Auschwitz as well, such as Areginal, which is based on ethylformiate. In the letter by Tesch & Stabenow to the Auschwitz Central Construction Office of June 13, 1944 we read about this:[11]
The first round of complaining seemed to be an attempt to pressure Trump into backing down and giving to Jews the kind of obeisance to which they are accustomed. The second round, after Trump's representatives indicated a refusal to submit, was more vicious and more blatantly unreasonable. What is really important, however, is that the conflict with Trump about the Holocaust has driven Jewish authorities to clarify their own position. In general, lack of clarity and definition has been the friend of those who promote the Holocaust, while clarity and definition make the story vulnerable to criticism.
It was in this context that the Madagascar plan emerged. It became all the more urgent as the estimate of the number of Jews under Nazi and Axis control surged: from 3¼ million (Heydrich; June 24) to 4 million (RSHA; August 15) to 6½ million (!), as cited by Rademacher in late August 1940. Indeed: if there ever was a factual basis for the 'extermination of 6 million Jews', it was in the context of the (non-homicidal) Madagascar plan. That round figure was evidently in circulation for several months in late 1940; Longerich additionally cites two notes by Eichmann, of December 3 and 4, referring to 'six million' (p. 492, note 154), and "a total of some 5.8 million Jews" (p. 173), respectively. As before, Longerich sees in this the nefarious beginnings of the Final Solution:
The hole inside that gas chamber that is said to have been the other end of that peephole can be seen to this day, although it is way higher than what Fribourg reported, who in his sketch placed the peephole below the second little port visible on that wall, close to the floor. Today, neither the peephole’s exit nor the switches are visible in the adjoining room. The switch panel and switch box are shown in the footage recorded on May 3, 1945 for the U.S. documentary. But that documentary neither shows nor mentions that peephole. There is, however, a photograph of that area from May 1945 showing not only the switch panel and switch box plus some of the insulated pipes and hand valves, but also a crude opening in the wall just beneath the switch panel. If we compare that image with a still of the footage just shown, we see:
Suvorov also mentions that Soviet soldiers and officers were issued Russian-German and Russian-Romanian phrase books as part of their preparations for an invasion of Europe. Thousands of Soviet troops did not dispose of this compromising evidence when they were captured in the German invasion of the Soviet Union. The Russian-German phrase books were composed very simply: a question in Russian, followed by the same question in German written in Russian letters, then in German in Latin letters. If the Soviet soldier did not know how to pronounce the needed German phrase, he could point to the corresponding lines in the book and the Germans could read the lines themselves.
Witnesses state that, while they “knew that more people were supposed to come,” they later somehow learned that the “experiment” had been a failure and that “they would send no more Jews to work in the East.”[6] Gutermann has to admit that it “cannot be determined from the documentation whether there was a plan to send additional transports of Jews from the camps in Silesia”[7] and writes about the convoy that “[t]his was evidently the only group of Jewish prisoners culled from the forced-labor camps in eastern Upper Silesia” (emphasis added).[8] Did the transports from Upper Silesia continue, and was the convoy observed in Vilnius on January 30, 1942 part of this program? Has the existence of such transports been concealed by the fact that they did not travel directly from Poland to occupied Soviet territory, but via transit through Auschwitz? It is worth pointing out that, according to Holocaust historian Ber Mark, Jews from Upper Silesia were “gassed” in Auschwitz in January 1942,[9] while a number of other exterminationists such as Danuta Czech and Christopher Browning claim that Jews from the Organisation Schmelt camps who were found to be unable to work were gassed in Auschwitz during February/March 1942.[10] No documentation on these alleged transports has come to light, however.
But the Oscar for Best Comedy in Heresy Suppression goes to France, whose Holocaust denial law makes it a crime to contradict the findings of the Nuremberg tribunal. At Nuremberg it was claimed that soap was made from the fat of Jewish corpses, but Peter Black, senior historian at the United States Holocaust Memorial and Museum, says “It didn’t happen…. even experimentally.”3 He’d better not say that in Gay Paree or he could be accused of contradicting what Supreme Court Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone called a “high-grade lynching party”4 and end up in jail.
[24] Mattogno, Carlo and Nyiszli, Miklos, An Auschwitz Doctor’s Eyewitness Account: The Bestselling Tall Tales of Dr. Mengele’s Assistant Analyzed, Uckfield: Castle Hill Publishers, 2020, pp. 9-16. https://shop.codoh.com/book/an-auschwitz-doctors-eyewitness-account-en/467/
Dachau is where the world came to believe the rumors and saw what we believed to be evidence of well-engineered German machinery, capable of gassing with precision and efficiency.
Also in 1988, in Toronto, there took place the second trial of Ernst Zündel, lasting over four months. The first trial had been held in 1985 and had gone on for seven weeks. The transcriptions of the two trials bear witness to the fact that they were disastrous for the proponents of the official “Holocaust” story in general and for the case for the existence of the gas chambers in particular. In 1985 the aforementioned R. Hilberg had been put to rout in the course of a long cross-examination and Rudolf Vrba, the number one witness of the “gas chambers”, had suffered the same fate; the press reports of the time attest to this. In 1988 Fred Leuchter, execution gas chamber specialist in the United States, produced his famous 193-page expert report[16] concluding not only that the alleged Nazi gas chambers of Auschwitz, Auschwitz-Birkenau and Majdanek had never existed, but also that they could not have existed, and this for reasons of a physical, chemical and architectural nature. He had gone on site with his team, carried out a minute study of the grounds and structures (whether in original state or in ruins), and then hired an independent laboratory to examine the sample fragments of masonry taken from the scene of the supposed crime. Other reports, amongst which that of Germar Rudolf,[17] would later confirm the validity of his findings.
Particularly irksome to Jewish sensibilities was Faurisson’s remark that the “Holocaust” had been a “hoax faked by Jews or Zionists for ulterior motives: to extort money from Germany and sympathy from the world.”[1]
Rassinier began to debunk and deconstruct the works of his fellow inmates. He made a tremendous effort to debunk Raul Hilberg's The Destruction of the European Jews. Rassinier went as far as to predict that in the future, Hilberg's volume "will not be spoken of at all, or if it is still mentioned, it will only be mentioned in reference to something unworthy of notice except as an example of the most scandalous aberrations of our times."[7] It is a sad comment on the power and persistence of the Holocaust-exaggeration campaign, if not on the frailty of the historical process itself, that today most persons concerned with the matter would describe (on the record) Rassinier's work in the terms he used for Hilberg's, and vice-versa. Hilberg is today limned as "the dean of Holocaust historiography," while Rassinier, years-long veteran of the camps though he is, is dismissed as a "Holocaust denier." However, the future is not over yet. Rassinier's prediction may yet come to pass, if only by one scholar at a time.
Semotiuk concluded that ‘the Demjanjuk case is little more than a Western show trial to reinvigorate the memory of the Holocaust….. It is a show trial along the lines of what we saw in the former Soviet Union and Nazi Germany previously.’
Niemöller said Germans were receiving no better than “the lowest ration ever heard of in a Nazi concentration camp.”[37]
This is not the case in the German trial of John Demjanjuk. The prosecution will not have to present such evidence. The court will, without proof, arbitrarily accept that the alleged crime took place. His legal counsel will be prohibited on pain of prosecution from presenting evidence contradicting this assumption. Being stripped of his most powerful defence, the accused is reduced to pleading mistaken identity or that he had nothing to do with an unproved murder.
5. The presence of the past: on the significance of the Holocaust and the criminalisation of its negation in the Federal Republic of Germany
Therefore “recently”, that is, allegedly after July 28, 2000, the date of the last revision of the article mentioned above, Zimmermann found one page only of the invoice no. 729 of May 27, 1943, for which Mattogno had published in facsimile the complete text already in 1994! This document is kept in the Museum of Auschwitz (Documents 21c-d). The other document kept in the Russian State Archive of War in Moscow with the reference number 502-1-327, pages 16 and 16a, is shown in Documents 21a-b. However, here the date of May 27, 1943, appears on the first page only; therefore, if the first page was really missing in the copy found by Zimmermann, how could Green claim that the invoice was “dated May 27, 1943”? And moreover: how could he mention the capacity of 4,800 m3/h, since this value is reported only in the first page of the invoice?
There certainly is hate speech regarding the Holocaust circulating today. The folks at the tax-funded USHMM (United States Holocaust Memorial Museum) would have you believe that revisionists (or “deniers” as they like to defame them) are the exponents of such sentiments. But the revisionists make their case in books and in articles. Their arguments don’t call for the elimination of any people, nor of books. Neither are the revisionists in positions of authority from which they could prosecute—or persecute—even those who charge quite the most-unbelievable crimes against the German people.
“Ich bin Rudolf Höss und war Kommadant [sic] von Auschwitz, mein Rank [sic] war SS Obersturmbannfüh[rer].”
So far from The Crime being an apologia for Nazism, Fritsch stated that most Germans knew as little about Dachau etc., as Americans knew about what was being done in their name at Teheran, Yalta, and Potsdam. Fritsch was not defending Nazism, he was objecting to the defamation and genocide being imposed on Germany in the name of collective guilt, and as a theologian contended that such a policy had more in common with the Talmud and Old Testament than with Christianity. Citing Professor Pitrim Sorokin’s Social and Cultural Dynamics, Fritsch pointed out that Germany, far from being uniquely a war-mongering nation as claimed by the Germanophobes, spent fewer years engaged in war than any other leading European nation between the 12th century and 1925. Fritsch’s appeal was to clergy, not to “Neo-Nazis” and he appealed to them to “fight for peace in Christ’s name.”[60]
We get further evidence of this relatively benign meaning of the German terms from the NYT itself. In March 1933 they reported on a speech by Rabbi Schulman, in which he decried Hitler’s “economic persecution [that] aims at the extermination of the Jewish people” (Mar 13; p. 15). The following month, we again read of the Nazis’ “deliberately calculated [plan] to accomplish the economic extermination of the Jews” (Apr 6; p. 10). Such reports were correct; they drew on Hitler’s harsh but nonlethal use of the words ausrotten and vernichten. But already by June of 1933, the NYT began to drop the economic piece of the picture. Hence we read, simply, that “Hitler’s program is one of extermination” (Jun 29; p. 4). And in August, the ominous final message is clear: “600,000 [German Jews] are facing certain extermination” (Aug 16; p. 11). Thus we can see the rapid evolution from a plan of economic dismantling and removal (reality) to a distorted vision implying outright murder (fiction).
At the end of his account the author writes that he found himself facing, quote “the remains of the most brutal genocide, the highly modern killing machines of the time, the cruelest crime of humanity,” unquote
The former White House aide clarified the meaning of his statement: "By using the word "holocaust," Mr. Bush has provided a moral reason to allow the Jewish state to do what it needs to do-He is reinvoking the notion of "never again." If you believe that there could be another Holocaust, it becomes morally indefensible to stand back. It is a powerful and loaded term. Those people in Europe who believed that the neo-cons have gone away and shrunk under a rock had better wise up fast."[103]
In the end, after two pages of conjecture, Gerlach is compelled to admit that "the SS apparently did not give up the idea of an extensive extermination in camp in Mogilew until 1942, when the crematoria intended for Mogilev were delivered to Auschwitz" and that "it seems that a gas chamber in Mogilev never existed," (p. 68) Mogilev was not, therefore, even a Jewish extermination camp! He then informs us that "instead, three gas vans were at that time located in the city, as in February 1942. This is proven by a newly found report of the Einsatzgruppe B." (p. 68) In the related note, Gerlach claims that, according to the "Tätigkeits- und Lagebericht der Einsatzgruppe B für die Zeit vom 16. bis 28 Februar, of 1 March 1942," on 23 February 1942 this Einsatzgruppe received two large "Gaswagen." (note 83 on p. 77) It only remains to be established whether these vehicles were the presumed homicidal gassing vehicles, or mere gas-generator vehicles (Generatorgaswagen) or producer-gas vehicles (Holzgaswagen), referred to, for purposes of brevity, as Gaswagen, vehicles operating on gas produced by gas generators.[21] Incidentally, the term "Gaswagen," as a homicidal gassing vehicle, gas van, only entered the language after the war; the documents mentioned in support of the reality of the presumed homicidal gassing vehicles were in fact referred to as Sonder-Wagen, Sonderfahrzeugen, Spezialwagen or SWagen. As documented by myself in the book Schiffbruch. Vom Untergang der Holocaust-Orthodoxie, one of the above -mentioned vehicles was sent to Auschwitz in September 1944 and was, in reality, a gas -generator vehicle. The document cited by Gerlach has also been discussed by Santiago Alvarez.[22]
Pavel Polian, an historian with the Institut für Zeitgeschichte in Munich, says that Nadjari’s and several other writings found buried at Auschwitz “are the most central documents of the Holocaust.” The other buried writings, Polian says, were all found shortly after the Red Army arrived in 1945; only the one written by Nadjari was discovered much later.
On January 15, Ilse Koch ”The Witch of Buchenwald” is sentenced to life imprisonment by a West German court. On March 3, former Treblinka SS Josef Hirtreiter is sentenced to life imprisonment by a Frankfurt court. The March and April issues of Jean-Paul Sartre’s magazine Le Temps Modernes presents 58 pages of translated extracts from Miklos Nyiszli’s book in his alleged experiences in Auschwitz. Historian Léon Poliakov’s book Le Bréviaire de la haine. Le IIIe Reich et les Juifs is published by Calmann-Lévy, Paris.
In the years that followed the book’s release, writers, researchers, and activists were physically assaulted, arrested, incarcerated and fined for questioning the “official” story of the Second World War in general and the Holocaust in particular. To a great extent, the escalation of such persecution seems to have its origin with the widespread acceptance and general usage of the inaccurate and offensive term “Holocaust denier” which certainly enjoyed increased use following the release of Denying the Holocaust.
The French cleric provoked Jewish outrage when he stated during the course of an interview published in the Swiss daily Le Matin that “according to the Bible, the Jews committed genocide comparable with the Holocaust when they entered Palestine 11 or 12 centuries before the birth of Jesus.”[1]
One of the final exhibits at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, D.C. sums up the importance of the information presented in this video.
The Malmedy trial took place from May 16 to July 16, 1946 at Dachau before a military tribunal of American officers operating under rules established by the Nuremberg International Military Tribunal.[1] American historian Steven P. Remy has written a book titled The Malmedy Massacre which disputes that the 73 German defendants in this trial were improperly convicted.
With regard to the Holocaust, the Abgänge were naturally of particular interest. In actual fact, the monthly number of Abgänge in the year 1942 fluctuated in an unusual manner. While the number of Abgänge normally amounted to approximately 2,000 inmates per month, there was a great increase in these figures in July, August, September and October. For example, 8,352 Abgänge were reported for the month of August 1942.
While our opponents do not mention it, one can find allegations in exterminationist literature that a smaller number of Jews from Eastern Galicia were deported to Sobibór in late 1942/early 1943, following the closing of the Bełżec camp. In his study on the Reinhardt camps from 1987, Arad wrote that “[i]n the winter of 1942/43 and in the spring and summer of 1943, transports arrived in Sobibór with Jews from the Lvov district,”[78] but in his 2010 volume on the Holocaust in the Soviet Union he contradicts this:
“Following the exchange of letters and telephone calls with a correspondent who doubts the reality of the gas chambers, I have extracted two of his arguments that appear to me valid.
In 2000 the Belarus historian Marat Botvinnik published a slim book on the holocaust in Belarus in which Trostenets is devoted a short chapter. Here we read:
One striking fact that presented a challenge to the integrity of the courts was the fact that Holocaust revisionism simply did not appear to fall under the strict provisions stipulated in the laws, in that scholarly revisionist writings do not constitute incitement to violence nor do they prompt reasonable people to commit hate crimes. Neither do scholarly revisionist writings “assault the human dignity of others by insulting, maliciously maligning or defaming any segment of the population,” although determined critics endeavor by diverse means to apply this criterion to accused revisionists.
The US Holocaust Museum uses the singular “the” to imply, both of these doors were the same door of the same homicidal gas chamber, disguised as a shower room.
8. The ritual defamers genuinely were concerned about the op-ed’s impact on our Jewish students, staff, and faculty. But maybe it is time for all members of the community to see the Holocaust for what it really was and not the unquestionable, unimpeachable, doctrine that makes Jewish suffering superior to that of other people. Maybe it is time to recognize that Zionism as a political movement to create a Jewish state in Palestine began long before the Holocaust and that Zionist discrimination, dehumanization, and dispossession of the Palestinian people should not be excused by it. Maybe it is time to see that since over half the population (within the borders controlled by Israel) is not Jewish, the dream of creating a Jewish state has failed. Walling in the non-Jews or putting them in Bantustans or driving them into Jordan will not make Israel a Jewish state. Nationalistic allegiance to “blood and soil” has been a failure in Germany and in Israel. That should be the real lesson of the Holocaust.
[10] Ibid., pp. 126-132;  Marcuse, Harold, Legacies of Dachau: The Uses and Abuses of a Concentration Camp, 1933-2001, Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001, p. 232.
This is a complaint about Holocaust memorials, and the fact that the British by contrast are not required to feel guilty for the indisputable war-crime of firebombing German cities. Volckmer thus implies that guilt in Germany's case is really not about being right or wrong, but really only about losing a war.
[25] Van Pelt, Robert Jan and Dwork, Deborah, Auschwitz: 1270 to Present, New York and London: W.W. Norton & Company, 1996, pp. 363-364.
Cole’s curious – and curiosity-driven – initiation into the intellectual quick (though never the dominant political culture) of Holocaust revisionism started off, as he tells it, “innocently enough,” in the late 80s as a capricious detour during his youthful adventures train-hopping political movements for kicks and edification. Being intrigued by IHR co-founder David McCalden’s category-defying ideological profile as “a militant atheist, an Irish nationalist, and a Holocaust revisionist,” Cole wrote to him asking for literature and information. When McCalden instead showed up at Cole’s doorstep in full-on confrontational mode (he thought Cole was “a ‘Jewish infiltrator’ trying to cozy up to him for nefarious purposes”), Cole assured him that he was sincere and there was an apparent meeting of minds. Following this encounter, Cole read McCalden’s hand-picked literature and found it to be “[i]ncredibly amateur crap.” Yet he was left with questions. “The problem” he discerned, was that “mainstream historians would never address revisionist concerns, and the revisionists, for the most part, were sloppy and (mostly) ideologically motivated.”
Lipstadt equates Holocaust revisionists with Nazis and fascists:
Most people have heard of the National-Socialist book burning. It happened on May 10, 1933, when literature considered pornographic and anti-German was publicly set afire. Few people realize that the Allies removed and then destroyed no fewer than 34,635 titles of books and brochures from German libraries and bookstores after they conquered Germany. This is many times more books destroyed by the Allies than were destroyed by National Socialist Germany. Even today books evincing doubt of the Holocaust story can lead to a house search and confiscation of the incriminating literature, with fines and jail time meted out to the owner of the books.[26]
The case of Udo Walendy, who was sentenced to 15 months’ imprisonment in 1997, merits special mention because it reveals the ludicrous depths to which German jurists will descend when attempting to individually interpret and apply laws specifically concerned with “Holocaust denial.” At the time of his sentencing, Walendy was seventy years of age, having been previously sentenced in 1996 to a term of 29 months’ imprisonment for publishing two controversial issues dealing with the “Holocaust” in his series, Historical Facts. The two offending issues, numbered 66 and 68 respectively, had crossed the legal line by questioning specific details related to the “Holocaust.”
The chairman asked why I picked out the Holocaust. I replied:
Does he claim that there is forensic evidence, i.e. huge amounts of human remains found at the site of the three Reinhardt camps? No, he does not. He does not even mention the Kola report which, according to the orthodox historians, proves that Belzec was an extermination camp. (We will discuss this report later.)
[19] Evans, Richard J., Lying about Hitler: History, Holocaust, and the David Irving Trial, New York: Basic Books, 2001, p. 150.
Yet any meaningful research into the facts of the Holocaust has been nearly stifled since the subject has been declared legally off limits to any but “establishment” historians toeing the officially accepted line. Ergo, the “Holocaust” has been declared a closed subject brooking no clarification, qualification, contradiction or revision if it happens to come into conflict with the officially accepted, legally mandated version. Restrained, intimidated and hamstrung by means of legal tyranny, highly qualified historians may soon find themselves arraigned before the courts like common criminals, facing terms in excess of five years’ imprisonment in some instances, and having no other option open to them than to ‘recant’ and “confess” in macabre Kafkaesque scenes reminiscent of Stalin’s infamous show trials. Such proceedings constitute a mockery of justice, since neither truth nor documentary evidence may be used as a means of vindication on behalf of the accused. Attorneys for the accused or judges renowned for their probity who hand down lenient sentences also run the risk of being charged, disbarred or censured. In fact, such instances are a rather common occurrence in those polities that have already criminalized “Holocaust denial.”
Existing blueprints show that the alleged gas chamber was in fact a morgue that was later converted into an air raid shelter.
A real execution gas chamber door is of steel, like all the rest of the construction, and its pane is of Herculite glass. To avoid letting the hydrocyanic acid erode the door joints and so, eventually, escape and spread outside, a vacuum must be created in the chamber. But creating a vacuum can cause a general collapse. Hence the extreme and indispensable robustness of the whole. The American humanitarians who advocated execution by gas (instead of execution by shooting, hanging or electricity, considered too cruel) imagined that nothing would be simpler than the use of gas. They were to be disenchanted. It took American engineers seven years (1917-1924) to develop their first homicidal gas chamber. And the first execution, in 1924 in Carson City (Nevada), nearly resulted in disaster from the significant presence of lethal gas in the prison corridors after the death of the condemned man.
As revisionists, we are naturally skeptical and therefore question reports of contemporary events as well as historical accounts. The attachment of an obituary quickly removed all doubt. It is widely known that “Samuel Crowell” was a pseudonym –one of several which my colleague chose to assign to his articles; I shall for the sake of the privacy of his family use that name throughout this article. Crowell selected his nom de plume due to the threat of persecution that revisionists suffered from the mid-1990s on. It was in fact legislation throughout Europe trampling free speech with regard to the Holocaust story that first caught Crowell’s eye and resulted in his immersion in the subject.
Setkiewicz informs us that at Auschwitz, Zyklon B was stored on the ground floor of the so-called old theater building (Theatergebäude), or in the storage area of the SS hospital’s basement (SS-Revier). The camp pharmacist Dr. Viktor Capesius was in charge of it.
The "evidence" indicating that the five Theresienstadt transports Bt, Bu, Bv, Bw and Bx arrived in Maly Trostinec consists of a reference to H.G. Adler's study Der verwaltete Mensch from 1974. In a previous study on the Theresienstadt Ghetto from 1955 Adler had concluded that the same transports were sent to Treblinka,[17] but by 1974 he had changed his mind on the issue:
Wikipedia defines the term "smoking gun" as “primarily, a reference to an object or fact that serves as conclusive evidence of a crime or similar act.”[6] Is this an acknowledgement that conclusive evidence of the Holocaust is lacking? The public perception, brought on by years of assertions from various outlets that the Holocaust is the most thoroughly documented crime in the history of the world is demonstrably false. Professor Arno Mayer of Princeton acknowledged that, “sources for the study of the gas chambers are at once rare and unreliable.”[7]
This is no mere hypothetical description. It is, in fact, how most of the Auschwitz chambers allegedly operated. If one then takes the obvious stance—that such a procedure is utterly impractical and ridiculous in the extreme—are you then a denier? Perhaps so; but certainly a rational one! To deny the ridiculous or the absurd is simply common sense. One wishes there were more such deniers in the world today, not less.
The lowest layer, stories told by people emotionally affected by the issue at hand, is unfortunately also the most common type of evidence adduced when it comes to the Holocaust. Just because we have many of these stories doesn’t mean they are any more reliable. After all, hundreds of years ago the courts in Europe collected thousands of witness accounts confirming that witnesses saw witches riding on broomsticks through the air and having sex with the devil. But such anecdotes don’t get more reliable just because thousands swear to them.
How does Nadjari say that the death factory of Birkenau disposed of the remains? He talks about:
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON: And would you care to tell the Tribunal what you know about the fictitious incidents along the Polish border?
Inevitably, the rumor got about that this vaccine was deliberately poisoned so as to kill inmates. This account reminded me of the tale ruling the mainstream history of today that the Germans adapted the fumigant Zyklon-B, brought into their camps and used in great quantities for disinfestation purposes, to the killing of inmates. Some or all of the vaccine used at Andersonville may have been lethal, and this might have been inadvertent, negligent, or even deliberate; deaths positively did ensue from its use. Some of the Zyklon-B used in the concentration camps may have resulted in the death of inmates; indeed, fatal accidents in the use of Zyklon-B for its designed purpose were at all times a real possibility. There may even have been enclosures or structures intended to accommodate homicidal use of the fumigant. But at Auschwitz as at Andersonville, the evidence for the allegations becomes progressively scanter as the allegations become progressively more brutal and intentionally homicidal.
We know from documents that more than 700,000 – probably around 800,000 – Jewish deportees were sent to Treblinka II during its period of operation 1942-43. According to established historiography – which in the case is based almost exclusively on eyewitness testimony – this was a “pure extermination camp” where all Jews who arrived to the camp were killed in homicidal gas chambers within only a few hours, except for a handful of Jews selected to carry out work related to the killing process. The victims were initially buried, but starting March 1943 – or possibly on smaller scale in November 1942 – they were instead burned on cremation pyres. The buried victims were then exhumed and incinerated on the same pyres. This work was supposedly completed by the end of July 1943. The Treblinka II camp was completely dismantled in September 1943.
Still, very little was written by revisionists on the technical feasibility of the alleged crimes – a most central issue, since historiography must always conform to hard evidence if it is to be called truthful and scientific. Ludwig Paulin’s 1954 article on Dachau is a noteworthy exception. Here the atrocity allegations are confronted with the parameters of physical reality. Tall tales are weighed against technical and forensic evidence, or lack of such. It takes about 1 hour and 10 minutes to incinerate a corpse in a crematory oven, and therefore, if the number of oven muffles is known, one can calculate whether the ovens were sufficient or not for the alleged number of victims. The cremation of hundreds of thousands of corpses would inevitably result in a tremendous amount of ashes – where are those ashes? The fact is, however, that the pioneering revisionists had little to go on as far technical details about the alleged gas chambers and the disposal of the bodies of the alleged victims were concerned. It should therefore not surprise that the bulk of revisionist research from this era is related to documents, statistics and testimonies that were relatively easily accessible. As will be seen in the forthcoming installments of this chronicle, the emergence of Holocaust historiography, following the early works of Reitlinger and Poliakov, would be counterbalanced by a gradually more refined, systematic and thorough Holocaust revisionism.
While one can only theorize about Lipstadt's real motive, her lack of objectivity with regard to other aspects of the Holocaust suggests that correcting the historical record may not be her true intention. Perhaps fearing that non-Jewish groups (e.g., the Poles) who often are in conflict with the Jews may be accorded moral authority by their inclusion in the Holocaust, the ethnocentric Lipstadt may be attempting to strip them of this by devictimizing them, and thereby enabling the Jewish community to gain all of the “moral authority” that the Holocaust ideology has to offer. In other words, she may want to capture all the sympathy and aggrandizement the Holocaust ideology has to offer for her fellow Jews, and not share a bit of it with any potential non-Jewish enemy.[9]
Interestingly, then, all three camps should be expected to have had gas chambers—but chambers that gassed clothing and personal items, against the disease-carrying lice. Similarly, all three camps should be expected to have had shower rooms—real shower rooms, ones that washed the often filthy new arrivals. Thus we should not be surprised if the likes of Kola, Haimi, or Sturdy Colls find evidence of such things. In fact we should expect it.
In 2005 the Hungarian Government sought to have Zentai extradited from Australia to Hungary. In March of that year a Hungarian military tribunal issued an international warrant for Zentai’s arrest. Australian Justice Minister Chris Ellison, a member of the then Liberal-National Coalition government, signed the request.[17] On 8 July Zentai was arrested by the Australian Federal Police to await an extradition hearing.[18]
We begin with two excerpts from Chapter 1, written by Mark Hobbs. After giving a brief history of Holocaust denial in Britain, our professor assures us that:
vi) For this information Gerlach lists two witnesses: a testimony[14] from an “H.S.” who claimed to have participated in the killing of a transport of 1,500 Jews from Germany, and the statement[15] of “H.K.”, who testified to having had a conversation in the Bobruisk labor camp with a Jew from Mönchengladbach. As already noted (3.3.16) the Jews from Mönchengladbach were deported to Auschwitz, Riga, Łódź and Theresienstadt. From the latter two locations German Jews were sent to Chełmno, Auschwitz, and Treblinka.
In the above passage Lipstadt makes an obvious reference to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. The Holocaust ideology has been invoked by pro-Zionist American politicians like former Vice Presidential Candidate Sarah Palin, Senator John McCain and former President George W. Bush as a “justification” for a future Israeli and/or American attack upon Iran. In their view, in order to prevent another Holocaust of the Jews, Iranian nuclear facilities must be destroyed. Although Ahmadinejad espoused revisionist ideas before these political figures linked an attack upon his country with the Holocaust, he may have correctly perceived that Holocaust falsehood would ultimately end up as a dire and existential threat to the well-being of his people. Ahmadinejad’s revisionism is actually in the best interests of Iran—it exposes the Holocaust falsehoods that are used to “validate” an attack upon the Iranian nation.[11]
[19] Ball, John Clive, “Air Photo Evidence,” in Gauss, Ernst (ed.), Dissecting the Holocaust: The Growing Critique of Truth and Memory, Capshaw, Ala.: Theses and Dissertations Press, 2000, p. 284.
The turnover document (Übergabeverhandlung) for Crematorium III to the camp administration, dated 24 June 1943, assigns "14 Brausen" (shower heads) to Leichenkeller1, the supposed homicidal gas chamber[139]. These shower heads, starting with Pressac, are usually considered "fake". The reality is quite different. They were the implementation of a well-documented previously existing plan.
We have to look at the original blueprint of the Crematorium I of April 10 1942 (but also the one from November 30 1940).
For almost six months we were constantly engaged in combat, both day and night, fighting under the worst supply situation imaginable. More than half of my comrades were killed, and those still alive looked terrible. We were nothing but skin and bones, with deeply lined faces and pale waxy complexions, indescribably filthy and infested with lice. For months we had been wearing the same uniforms and underwear, completely soaked with oil and sweat. The relentless overexertion had visibly frayed the nerves of many of my comrades. We were thankful to have survived the countless battles and overjoyed when we got the prospect of a little recuperation with a chance to catch up on our sleep. We left our section of the front and were transported by truck to the concentration camp at Birkenau. Approaching our destination, we saw columns of concentration-camp laborers wearing brown uniforms and engaged in constructing fallback defensive positions. Toward evening we arrived at Camp Birkenau.
“The difference in total cyanides (Prussian blue + non-Prussian blue) owes to the fact that Prussian blue formed efficiently in the case of the delousing chambers but not in the homicidal gas chambers, and Prussian blue once formed is likely to remain.”
• We have also seen it was a myth that the database contained evidence of gassings at Auschwitz. Thus, the children of the ghetto Lodz who were allegedly gassed at Auschwitz were found alive after the war: they were only transported through Auschwitz.
It is tempting to speculate as to whether Schacht was planted in the National Socialist regime to derail the more-strident aspects of the NSDAP ideology on international capitalism. It is unreasonable to claim that Hitler betrayed the National Socialist fight against international capital, because the full economic program of the NSDAP was not fulfillled. There is always going to be a difference in perspective as to what can be achieved when one is not in government. Schacht was obliged to work within National Socialist parameters and could not help but achieve some remarkable results. Like Montagu Norman and others, he was also concerned that the economic chaos in Germany engendered by the post-war Versailles diktat was having an adverse impact on world trade. Sutton does not mention that he ended up in a concentration camp because of his commitment to international capital. At least Higham states early in his book that “Hjalmar Schacht spent much of the war in Geneva and Basle pulling strings behind the scenes. However, Hitler correctly suspected him of intriguing for the overthrow of the present regime in favor of The Fraternity[66] and imprisoned him late in the war.”[67]
As a result and as described by Davidowicz above, historians searching for causes and triggers have played connect-the-dots with a whole bunch of documents and trace evidence – ‘the events as we know them now’ – and provided various theories from Hilberg’s famous ‘mind reading’ conclusion, to Daniel Jonah Goldhagen’s objectionable thesis of innate German anti-Semitism. Yet also, it must be thrown into the mix that Nazi racial policy was not just about Jews. In actuality, it wasn’t really about Jews at all. Nazi racial policy was focused on the German people and German living space. This was at the exclusion of all others. Jews, through their alleged positions of power were seen as a major opponent to be dealt with and also, as a sizeable minority within the ‘living space’ were an obstacle to Nazi ambitions, yet so were Slavs, so were Poles and so were other Eastern Europeans. Indeed, in chapter thirteen it was shown that the Russian prosecution presented evidence at the trial suggesting a proposed genocide of thirty million Slavs. Perhaps, if a study was made of numbers of Slavs who starved in the Nazi sphere of influence, Slavs in camps, Slavs recruited as slave laborers and numbers of Slavs killed in anti-partisan actions, we could construct a Slav Holocaust from the available evidence. Obviously, we would not have a Führer order for that either, although it seems that for some, that doesn’t matter. Perhaps we could use the ‘events as we know them now’ to construct a Polish one, or even a French.[35] But being able to construct something does not demonstrate a reality. It demonstrates the human ability to construct things.
On to Ruth Hildebrand, the daughter of a civil servant in Berlin. Regarding the concentration camps she knew the following:
“The most important witness brought, Dr Julius Grant, one of Britain’s most distinguished forensic scientists, considered Demjanjuk’s signature, in Cyrillic writing, ‘unlikely’ to be genuine.”
According to the directive, Irving’s public appearances had helped to endanger public security and order, thereby seriously harming the reputation of the German Federal Republic. German officials issued this ban, at least in large part, in response to pressure from foreign organizations that are seeking to suppress dissident revisionist views of the “Holocaust extermination story.”[22]
Truth was all-important for him. “What is really at issue is the right to report contemporary events truthfully.” (We can add past events as well.) “The enemies of intellectual liberty,” he continued, “always try to present their case as a plea for discipline versus individualism. The issue truth-versus-untruth is as far as possible kept in the background.” Promoters of the Holocaust do not pin their cases on “discipline”, but on chimeras such as “respect for the memory of the dead” and “respect for the feelings of Holocaust survivors.” The upshot is the same.
Despite ‘faulty evidence’, appeals to this alleged use of gas against Iraqis in the 1920s resurfaced in regard to allegations of Saddam Hussein’s gas attacks against Kurds during their 1988 rebellion.
After this, Steinberg heard from a friend that his mother and his youngest brother had been killed at Treblinka. When he asked for proof his friend told him what he had learned from another friend working on the railroads. The train had gone to Treblinka, where only 40% of the people arrive alive to be delivered “to the gas chambers and crematorium” (p. 75). In short, the proof came from the information of a friend, of a friend, of a friend...
Churchill's supporters often claim that, unlike the Americans, the seasoned and crafty British statesman foresaw the danger from the Soviet Union and worked doggedly to thwart it. Churchill's famous "Mediterranean" strategy — to attack Europe through its "soft underbelly," rather than concentrating on an invasion of northern France — is supposed to be the proof of this.[39] But this was an ex post facto defense, concocted by Churchill once the Cold War had started: there is little, if any, contemporary evidence that the desire to beat the Russians to Vienna and Budapest formed any part of Churchill's motivation in advocating the "soft underbelly" strategy. At the time, Churchill gave purely military reasons for it.[40] As Ben-Moshe states: "The official British historians have ascertained that not until the second half of 1944 and after the Channel crossing did Churchill first begin to consider preempting the Russians in southeastern Europe by military means."[41] By then, such a move would have been impossible for several reasons. It was another of Churchill's bizarre military notions, like invading Fortress Europe through Norway, or putting off the invasion of northern France until 1945 — by which time the Russians would have reached the Rhine.[42]
When it comes to the Holocaust, the most important values of western civilization are turned upside down. To prove this, I quoted philosopher Immanuel Kant’s classic definition of enlightenment:[10]
In order to effect a solution of the Jewish problem in line with their theories, the Nazis carried out a series of expulsions and deportations of Jews, mostly of original east European stock, from nearly all European states. Men frequently separated from their wives, and others from children, were sent by the thousands to Poland and western Russia. There they were put into concentration camps, or huge reservations, or sent into the swamps, or out on the roads, into labour gangs. Large numbers perished under the inhuman conditions under which they labored. While every other large Jewish center was being embroiled in war, American Jewry was gradually assuming a position of leadership in world Jewry.
According to the official historiography, 2,897 Gypsies in the so-called “Zigeuner-Familienlager” (Gypsy family camp) in Camp BIIe were gassed at Birkenau on 2 August 1944.
In 1988, in the United States, an equally prestigious academic, Arno Mayer, professor of contemporary European history at Princeton University, published a book entitled, Why Did the Heavens not Darken? The “Final Solution” in History.[15] Concerning the “Nazi gas chambers” he wrote: “Sources for the study of the gas chambers are at once rare and unreliable.” The phrase was worth contemplating for those who imagined that those sources were countless and rock-solid. And his subsequent considerations on the dead at Auschwitz and other camps were, if not revisionist in nature, at least rather close to revisionism, although, of course, A. Mayer missed no opportunity to remind us of his firm conviction that there had been killings in gas chambers.
Auschwitz and Majdanek in Poland, and Dachau, Mauthausen, and the other camps in Germany and Austria, were not extermination camps. They were bad, bad places. People were killed there. Jews were killed at Majdanek by shooting, and Jews were killed at Auschwitz in 1942, most likely due to decisions made by the commandant in defiance of orders from Berlin.
His Auschwitz story concludes in “late December 1944 or early January 1945,” with a death march evacuation. (Final evacuation occurred on January 17.)
Nowhere does Shaw mention the infamous gas chambers.
In these revisions there were 60,000 prisoners at Sachsenhausen, where 26,143 died; 30,600 prisoners at Buchenwald, where 13,200 did not survive; and 30,000 prisoners at Bautzen, where 16,700 died. These higher death counts are supported by discoveries of numerous mass graves of Germans buried near the Soviet-run camps.[9]
Hellishly flaming crematoria. Lines of doomed Jews trudging through the snow from cattle cars. Heartless selektions. Gas chambers! It’s all part of the gruesome furniture with which the minds of going on three generations of Westerners have been filled since the swastika flag finally came down for the last time. The insanely cruel and destructive assault upon Jewry by every non-Jew in Germany is indelibly branded upon the knowledge of every Westerner—including Germans—from childhood.
Gerald Reitlinger reported in his book The Final Solution 1961:[21]
There are other, much-better, reasons to choose to read this book, especially if you happen to be someone already persuaded of the counterfeit nature of Holocaust history and you wish to arouse some understanding—or respect, or even just tolerance—for the extremely unstylish views you might have communicated, deliberately or carelessly, to another, who it is to be hoped is a very close friend who will honor you if not with their sympathy, then at least with their confidence.
All this would be bad enough, but the story gets much stranger still. It turns out that the world was told of 6 million Jewish victims not only in the immediate aftermath of the war, but during the war, at the start of the war, and even before the war—in fact, decades before the war. The seemingly-impossible history of the ‘6 million’ constitutes a fascinating subtext to the larger Holocaust narrative.
A hundred other arguments again could be recalled here to prove that, on the plane of history and science, the immense edifice of lies put up by the “Holocaust” or “Shoah” sect has been thrown down, with not one stone left upon another. In contrast to this expanse of ruins, we have seen the construction of a whole revisionist literature. In it can be discovered a profusion of documents, photographs, expert studies, trial transcripts, technical and scientific reports, testimonies, statistical studies, all of which bearing on a hundred aspects of the history of the Second World War that show what the lot of the European Jews was in reality, and demonstrate in striking manner that the Jewish version of that war is largely of the order of myth. From the myth, the Jews have gone on to mythology and from mythology on to religion or, rather, to a semblance of religion. Today the servants of that false religion appear more and more like priests who carry on officiating and turning over the hallowed phrases but, manifestly, no longer have the faith. They seem no longer really to believe in their “credo”. So it is, for instance, that for about the last ten years they have been seen advising their flocks to observe the greatest possible discretion on the subject of the gas chambers. In his memoirs, published in French in 1994 and in English in 1995, the big false witness Elie Wiesel wrote: "Let the gas chambers remain closed to prying eyes, and to imagination" (All Rivers Run to the Sea, New York, Knopf [Random House], p. 74). Claude Lanzmann (maker of the film Shoah), Daniel Goldhagen (author of Hitler’s Willing Executioners), Simone Veil (former president of the European Parliament, quoted above), François Léotard (a former French government minister) have in the last few years become surprisingly reserved, cautious or silent on the matter. Some months ago, Jacques Attali (a Jewish businessman and historian) decreed: “The immense majority of Jews murdered were killed by German soldiers’ and military policemen’s individual weapons, between 1940 and 1942, and not by the death-works, which were put into place afterwards” (“Groupes de criminels?”, L’Express, June 1, 2006, p. 60). This implicit way of writing off the alleged Nazi gas chambers is becoming regular practice. Attempts are made to replace the Auschwitz lie with the lie of Babi Yar or those of other fantastical slaughters in the Ukraine or the Baltic countries but not once are we provided with scientific evidence concerning them, such as reports of exhumation and post-mortems as has been the case with the real massacres perpetrated by the Soviets at Katyn, Vinnitsa or elsewhere. As for the number of dead at Auschwitz, we are hardly told any longer that it was 9,000,000 (as in the film Nuit et Brouillard [Night and Fog]), 8,000,000, 6,000,000 or 4,000,000 (as at the Nuremberg trial or on the commemorative stones at Auschwitz-Birkenau until 1990). The new religion’s clerics are settling for 1,500,000 (as marked on those same stones since 1995), or for 1,100,000, or for 700,000, (as J.-C. Pressac wrote), or still for 510,000 (as Fritjof Meyer concluded in 2002: “Die Zahl der Opfer von Auschwitz”, Osteuropa, May 2003, p. 631-641), all these latter figures being no better founded than the previous ones.
Dr. Lipstadt also pointed to evidence that casts doubt on the value of Holocaust survivor testimony, the form of “evidence” that comprises most of the "proof" of the traditional view of the Holocaust. She wrote: “For a variety of reasons some [former Nazi concentration camp] inmates did and still do embellish their experiences. Others sometimes adopt the experiences of fellow survivors as their own.”[23]
“The belief in the Holocaust is a religion. We have to fight against this religion, but I don’t know how to fight a religion. Revisionists can look at demographic figures, historical documents, forensic evidence, etc., but there is no example in history of reason destroying a religion.”
While Yockey’s left-wing biographer Coogan attempts to put doubt upon the credibility of Van Roden, the Judge was continuing to insist in his statement published in Doenitz at Nuremberg that his conclusions were based on the examination of a mass of documentation, many interviews and “careful consideration” by all the members of the Simpson Commission, enabling him to “secure a first-hand knowledge of this far-reaching ‘experiment’ of War-Crimes Trials.” The trials were “contrary to civilized ideals and principles of legal justice.” He referred to the Malmedy case as being “devoid of any competent evidence.” He regarded the whole “war crimes” business as shameful, and thought that Doenitz and other “enemy patriots” should receive “a humble apology.”[86]
Therefore, he had personally participated in the demolition of "his" crematorium!
He recognized that human folly, something more common in “individuals or groups who are inclined or condemned to sociability”, is a very difficult obstacle to overcome. One thinks here of those who routinely dismiss Holocaust revisionism as crankery or neo-Nazism without examining it. Folly, Bonhoeffer declared, cannot be dealt with successfully by reason or protests or threats, but is self-complacent and can become dangerously aggressive when pressed.
Photo 8: Central monument, marking the gas chambers.
The contradictions, absurdities, and outright falsehoods in the Holocaust ideology are endless.[53] The promotion of the Holocaust ideology in the Federal Republic of Germany is not to be explained because of its inherent truth or reasonableness. Rather, its dominance is largely explained by the fact that it serves to "justify" and "legitimize" the entire sociopolitical structure in the Federal Republic, and the exploitative economic relationship between the Israeli and German people. The Holocaust ideology "persuades" the German masses that “their” government is “good and legitimate” and financial subordination to Israel and Zionism is "wholly morally correct and natural." With the vigorous promotion of the Holocaust ideology, the current German rulers solidify their position of power over the German people.
[17] Reitlinger, Gerald, The Final Solution, New York: A. S. Barnes & Company, Inc., 1961, p. 499.
In this respect we note that Snyder’s article contains a map which pinpoints the Bug river camps – Belzec, Sobibor and Treblinka – and includes as well some Soviet killing sites, for example, Katyn, Bykivnia, and Kuropaty. We might ask what forensics has determined about these death sites, and we notice a distinct contrast. Katyn, for example, contains the remains of about 4,400 Poles, according to a meticulous body count carried out by the Germans in 1943. The mass graves at Bykivnia and Kuropaty, on the other hand, which have only recently received the attention they deserve, contain, according to actual forensics, about 30,000 to 50,000 bodies apiece, although the initial estimates were ten times higher. These two sites, however, are enormous, especially compared to the Bug river sites where the number of victims are alleged as being ten, or even twenty times higher, figures that are supported nowhere outside of the Hoefle telegram, and figures which are not even supported by the forensic analyses at these sites.
Srebrnik's claim is of the same lunatic quality. It reminds us of the memoirs by former Auschwitz commander Höß, who, after months of torture and imprisonment, had claimed that attempts were made to make corpses disappear by blowing them up, which, needless to say, didn't work out too well.[16]
The present summary has as its title “The Victories of Revisionism” and not “History of Revisionism” or “Arguments of the Revisionist Case”. It deals only with victories that our opponents have had to concede to us either explicitly or implicitly. Therefore one must not expect to find here a systematic mention of revisionist authors, works or arguments. If still I had to recommend a short sample of revisionist readings, I should suggest the prime work of reference that is  The Hoax of the Twentieth Century / The Case Against the Presumed Extermination of European Jewry, published by Arthur Robert Butz in 1976. The book is masterful. In the thirty years of its existence no one has attempted the least refutation, so solidly is it built; I especially recommend the 2003 edition, enhanced by five remarkable supplements. It would also be appropriate to read Fred Leuchter’s famous study, An Engineering Report on the Alleged Execution Gas Chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau and Majdanek, Poland, particularly in the gilt cover edition issued by Samisdat Publishers in Toronto in 1988, containing, on page 42, the text of a letter of capital importance, dated May 14, 1988, on the utter absence of openings in the roofs of the alleged gas chambers of crematoria II and III at Auschwitz-Birkenau. F. Leuchter has also produced three other reports on the gas chamber question. Not to be missed is German research chemist Germar Rudolf’s Lectures on the Holocaust / Controversial Issues Cross Examined, Theses & Dissertations Press (PO Box 257768, Chicago, IL 60625, USA), 2005, 566 p., along with the same author’s impressive periodical series (more than thirty issues to date) that he has brought out under the title Vierteljahreshefte für freie Geschichtsforschung, not to mention his English language magazine The Revisionist and a fair number of other publications. All told, the work done thus far by G. Rudolf (now aged 42 and imprisoned in Germany) amounts to a formidable scientific landmark. Finally, let us cite Canadian barrister Barbara Kulaszka’s opus magnum Did Six Million Really Die ? / Report of the Evidence in the Canadian “False News” Trial of Ernst Zündel, 1988, published in 1992; with its compact print it is equivalent to a volume of about a thousand pages in regular book format. The text shows how, during Ernst Zündel’s two long trials in Toronto in 1985 and 1988, the other side, when confronted with the revisionist argumentation, simply collapsed: a real Stalingrad for the orthodox historians, beginning with the biggest of them all, Raul Hilberg. Essential studies have been written by the Germans Wilhelm Stäglich and Udo Walendy, the Italian Carlo Mattogno, the Spaniard Enrique Aynat Eknes, the Swiss Jürgen Graf and ten or so other authors. The 97 issues of The Journal of Historical Review (1980-2002), in good part due to the American Mark Weber, constitute a mine of information on all aspects of revisionist research. In France, Pierre Guillaume, Serge Thion, Henri Roques, Pierre Marais, Vincent Reynouard, Jean Plantin have picked up where Maurice Bardèche and Paul Rassinier left off. There are now countless revisionist-oriented publications and websites throughout the world, and this despite the prevailing censorship and repression.
Shielded by volumes of hagiographic portraiture, Elie Wiesel’s neo-midrashic fables have largely escaped the scrutiny of would-be debunkers (revisionists notwithstanding). It will be interesting to see whether the old sage retains his halo if the conjectures of some tenacious revisionists pan out and he turns out to have trespassed beyond the bounds of conventionally excusable embellishment. To the extent that his oeuvre has been interpreted critically to date, criticism has typically taken the form of careful apologetics couched to remove Holocaust literature from the purview of creeping revisionism. Yet it is perhaps telling that the famed misery memoirist has occasionally invoked laconically parsed qualifications in defense of the essential truth of storytelling that lives at necessary tension with objective reality. “No witness is capable of recounting everything from start to finish anyway,” Wiesel wrote in his memoir All Rivers Run to the Sea, “God alone knows the whole story.” In other contexts, Katsoulis refers to this stance as “pleading an alternative truth,” and as plea bargains go, it’s a decent gambit. Trouble is, it just as easily provides a convenient cover for bullshit. Anyway, Wilkomirski says something similar these days. We shouldn’t read too much into these things.
Sevillias was deported from Athens to Auschwitz and then Birkenau in 1944 at the age of 43. His memoir Athens-Auschwitz was published first in English in 1983 (Lycabettus Press, Athens) and then in Greek in 1995 (Αθήνα - Άουσβιτς, Vivliopōleion tēs “Hestias,” Athens). His account is generally believable. Simple, clear, and with no verbalisms. After his stay in Birkenau, he was transferred to Breslau which proved to be much worse as he had to work at night shifts in the freezing cold. He suffered severely from hunger, frostbites and lice, as there were no cleaning measures (in Birkenau he received clean clothes every week). Upon liberation, he was 32 kg and at the brink of death. He slowly recovered and returned to Greece. So let’s see what he has to say about the extermination claims.
So there you have it. The evidence for the orthodox view of the Final Solution would be inadmissible as courtroom evidence. Nevertheless, in many European countries, courts send people to prison for rejecting this orthodoxy!
Holocaust historian Miriam Novitch gives a different story on the number, dimensions and capacities of the “gas chambers.” She claims that each “original” gas chamber (three of them) were ten square meters and could hold 50 people.[27] Later, she says that new gas chambers were built: there were now five gas chambers, each 4 x 12 meters (48 square meters), with a capacity of 70 to 80 people. Thus, 400 victims could be put to death at the same time, if children were included.[28]
In the meantime, Lindtner has come, or pretends to have come, to the conclusion that Holocaust revisionism is "a moral and intellectual aberration" and "chutzpah". On 20 July 2011, he stated in an e-mail to Dr. Fredrick Töben.
“The taking of evidence shall be extended to all witnesses and experts who were summoned by the court and who appeared, as well as to the other evidence produced by the court or the public prosecution office pursuant to Section 214 subsection (4), […]”
Harry Elmer Barnes, who died in 1968, did not foresee that the historical blackout would become even worse in regard to the Holocaust story. Initially relatively little was written about the alleged genocide of European Jewry. For example, three of the best-known works on World War II history are Gen. Eisenhower’s 559-page Crusade in Europe, Winston Churchill’s six-volume The Second World War (4,448 pages total), and Gen. de Gaulle’s three-volume Mémoires de guerre (2,054 pages total). Published from 1948 to 1959, these books in 7,061 pages of writing make no mention of anything related to the “Holocaust”.[11]
…you held a two-day conference of Holocaust deniers. For the illiterate and ignorant, this is dangerous propaganda. This makes you, quite simply, ridiculous.
“I, in every way, was trying to explain to Ninetta and the other girls how the Germans killed so many thousands, the mode of operation, how we were burning the bodies. Although they would see them in front of them, they could not believe it. I was explaining them this because we of the Sonderkommando were certain that we would not live, they would kill us beforehand, before liberation, because our eyes had seen more than they should have. This was not a reason not to be cheerful, and in fact I pretty much was. I would even set up a theater and they were all excited, specifically in fact, on January 1, 1945, I performed in the Auskleidungsraum of Crematorium I, where Ninetta and Paulina were present. As it seemed all of them were very pleased.” (p. 101)
Potent evidence against Holocaust denial? Actually, in the above testimonies we find statements clearly at odds with the orthodox narrative while we fail to find reliable information regarding these elusive gas chambers. If these testimonies are representative of the whole, then they are certainly potent evidence in favor of Holocaust denial.
a. Political: German courts are forbidden by orders from higher up to accept such motions to introduce evidence, as is stated in Article 97 of the German Basic Law:[3] “Judges are independent and subject only to the Law.” Please pardon my sarcasm.
In her interrogation, Biagini stated that she had not seen written materials concerning homicidal gassing, but mentioned that rumors on this subject had circulated at TESTA. These rumors, which she first heard in Winter 1942, were not given any credence.[80] The same story is given in her statement[81] and in the report on the case.[82] Her statements to this effect may well be true. Rumors concerning the gassing of humans did circulate in Germany during the war. It would not be surprising if some typists at a gassing firm gossiped about them. That said, Biagini claimed that she had heard the rumors from her fellow typist Erika Rathcke, which Rathcke denied in her interrogation, asking to be confronted with the witness who claimed this. She maintained this denial in the face of a threatening interrogation (“I tell you that you don’t speak the truth. That rumor was circulated in the office and you must know. I shall let you sit here for years if you don’t speak up.”). She had heard rumors about “idiots” being put to sleep (the euthanasia program), and knew of an institutionalized family member who had died shortly after a transfer, causing suspicion. She had not, however, heard anything about the use of gas for this purpose.[83]
If Blatt is correct, in that the “barber shop” was just steps away (6.1 meters) from the gas chambers, then Arad’s official story that the “barber shop” was 37.5 meters from the “gas chambers” is false. But if Arad is correct, then this calls into question the veracity of Blatt’s testimony.
In the spring of 1987, Bacque and Dr. Ernest F. Fischer, Jr., a retired colonel in the U.S. Army and a distinguished army historian, met in Washington, D.C. They worked together over the following months in the National Archives and in the George C. Marshall Foundation in Lexington, Virginia, piecing together the evidence they uncovered. In the United States National Archives on Pennsylvania Avenue, Bacque found the documents with the heading Weekly Prisoner of War and Disarmed Enemy Forces Report. In each report was the heading "Other Losses," which resembled the statistics he had seen in France.
The reasoning related to the height of the corpses is obviously valid only under certain limitations; it is obvious that, by reducing the number of victims, hypothetically also the surface available on the floor would have increased. For example, if only 1,000 victims are considered over a surface of 207 m2, a density of approx. 5 standing persons per square meter would have resulted; the height of the heap would have been definitely lower, but still, the corpses would obstruct the ventilation openings. These would remain more or less unobstructed only with fewer than 1,000 victims. But the number of 1,500 victims reported is claimed even by orthodox Holocaust historians as too small. Franciszek Piper states in fact that “approximately 2,000 persons were crammed inside Morgue #1 on average”.[74]
• Les comptages précédents sont fondés sur des documents mal utilisés, il est vrai, mais (souvent) irréfutables. Malheureusement, l’histoire de la Shoah s’appuie surtout sur des témoignages, c’est-à-dire sur des éléments fragiles. Une grande partie de la banque de données du Yad Vashem sont de cette mouture; non seulement ces témoignages ne sont guère fiables mais, comme manifestement aucun tri n’a été opéré, cette façon de procéder ne peut que conduire à de multiples doublons. Pire, parfois, la source documentaire s’ajoute à la source testimoniale. Quelques exemples:
At the present time the development of the Internet has given Holocaust revisionists, as well as thousands of other lateral thinkers, prophets, would-be prophets and eccentrics, an opportunity to put their views to the public at large without restraint and censorship. The Declaration, in its discussion of its sixth fundamental issue, addresses this (from its point of view) undesirable and damaging situation, and calls on governments ‘to create common metrics to measure anti-Semitism and other manifestations of hate online’ and to find ways to tackle the relevant ‘problems’.
It is the merit of Professor Robert J. van Pelt to have put Auschwitz back on the European map with the well-researched and most readable book on the history of the town and its region, Auschwitz, 1270 to the Present, which he wrote together with Deborah Dwork. After the famous trial in early 2000 in which David Irving sued Penguin Books and Deborah Lipstadt for libel, professor van Pelt summed up his work for the defendants in a further book, The Case for Auschwitz. This work is much less easy to read than the previous one, as it presents an incoherent selection of snippets from the history of the camp and disappoints the reader who was hoping for a comprehensive and conclusive presentation.
When we opened the door, an atrocious odor took us by the throat: the stench of decomposing bodies. I had never passed by in front of that barracks before, and only then did I learn that it was used as a storage area for the bodies of inmates who had died during quarantine, before they were taken to the crematorium to be burnt. A little group of prisoners spent the entire morning in the barracks recovering the bodies of those who had died during the night. The bodies could then remain 15 or 20 days in the Leichenkeller to rot, and those on the bottom were often in an advanced state of decomposition, due to the heat"[32].
Lipstadt also mentions Jamie McCarthy, Harry Mazal, Danny Kerem, Richard Green and the other members of The Holocaust History Project as “exceptionally forthcoming with their time and expertise.” Lipstadt mentions numerous other people in her book as providing assistance.[12]
Chapter 3 is about Holocaust denial in the age of the Worldwide Web, and was written by Nick Terry. Offering a brief history of the movement after the Irving-Lipstadt trial, it begins with the following:
I end with a series of challenging assertions which I am prepared to defend to the best of my ability. The bill is too vaguely worded and offers insufficient safeguards for intellectual freedom. The terms “racist” and “racism” are too vague for adequate debate. They are unscientific in the sense used by Professor Eric Voegelin of the term “fascism” in his seminal work, The New Science of Politics, published by the University of Chicago Press in 1952 in America.[68] “Denial of the Holocaust” and allied terms are prejudicial and seriously misleading. Revisionist historians, David Irving and the Australian League of Rights, as well as many other individuals and groups in the so-called far right spectrum, are honourable and decent people who deserve a fair hearing. Their exclusion from public debate on this bill by the major media is a national intellectual scandal. The member for Kalgoorlie in the House of Representatives, Mr Graeme Campbell, was correct to state that the major impetus for this bill has come from Jewish Zionist pressure groups and individuals, as he said in the House debate of 15th and 16th November. Jewish Zionist influence on our national politics has become excessive and needs to be curbed.[69]
Paul Sakowski (born in 1920), whom East German propaganda christened “the hangman of Sachsenhausen”, was arrested by the NKVD shortly after his liberation from the camp. In October 1947, he was among the defendants at the Sachsenhausen trial at Berlin-Pankow. Sakowski was sentenced to 25 years, which he served until the very last day, first at Workuta and later in East Germany. As he had been previously interned at Sachsenhausen for six years, this man spent more than 31 years of his life behind prison bars.
Other scientists have concluded that there cannot have been homicidal gas chambers in the German concentration camps. For example, Dr. William B. Lindsey, a research chemist employed for 33 years by the DuPont Corporation, testified in the 1985 Ernst Zündel trial that he considered mass homicidal gassings in the camps to be technically impossible. Based on his on-site examination of the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz, Birkenau, and Majdanek, Dr. Lindsey stated: “I have come to the conclusion that no one was willfully or purposefully killed with Zyklon B in this manner. I consider it absolutely impossible.”[12]
[28] Mattogno, Carlo, “The Truth about the Gas Chambers”?, Inconvenient History, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2010.
One reason for the reluctance to establish an overall death toll may be the obvious lack of evidence—that is, absence of victims’ bodies. Based on Corni’s data, the Warsaw ghetto yielded nearly 130 corpses per day, on average, for two or more years. What did they do with the bodies? They could not bury them, as they were in the middle of a large city. They had no crematoria, nor wood to build pyres. So—what happened to the bodies? And are there any remains that we might examine today, in order to confirm things?
This explanation is rather naive, because hydrogen-cyanide-disinfestation gas chambers existed at Birkenau (in Buildings BW 5a and 5b), to which Zyklon B was supplied in a normal fashion. Therefore, if there had been a need to “camouflage” Zyklon-B deliveries, they could have been easily record as deliveries to these delousing installations instead of to the alleged homicidal gas chambers. The fact is that among the extant records “there are no clear references to selections or the operation of [homicidal] gas chambers” (p. 73).
“The Nazi Holocaust may have claimed up to 20 million lives,”
Here we may recall that the witness Jeanette Wolf states in her memoirs that Polish Jews were kept in the Strasdenhof camp, that another witness, Josef Katz, repeatedly mentions the presence of Polish Jews in the Riga Ghetto and the Kaiserwald camp (cf. §3.3.1.) and that Jack Ratz speaks of the arrival of Polish Jews (who had come "straight from Poland") at the Lenta camp outside Riga in the summer of 1943. We may also note that the Yad Vashem Central Database of Shoah Victims' Names[125] lists an Abraham Grafman from Warsaw (b. 1904), who supposedly perished in 1943—the entry states that he died in Warsaw, but the relative who filled in the form apparently did not know Grafman very well, since the form has the year of birth altered from 1900 to 1904. Could Abraham Grafman have been deported to Latvia via Treblinka?
“Evidentemente ai solerti scribacchini shammashim (se non conoscono il significato del termine, lo chiedano ai loro padroni) sfugge il vero e solo motivo di tutto questo: sbugiardare i falsari !!! Chiunque, in pochi “step”, può costruirsi il suo “personale gasato” che entrerà nel conteggio ufficiale dei morti della shoah…basta entrare nel sito ufficiale del museo dell’olocausto Yad Vashem di Gerusalemme, compilare un modulo inventando nome, luoghi, date, dati e persino la causa della morte del nonno, dello zio o del conoscente, inviare tutto e “per magia”, dopo pochissimo tempo, arriverà nella mail indicata un bel certificato da stampare e incorniciare …ovviamente il nome del “gasato”, inventato di sana pianta, entrerà nell’elenco ufficiale dei morti… nessun “stato di famiglia” è richiesto e nessuna indagine per appurare la veridicità dei dati inseriti viene effettuata…si compila un modulo e il numero si gonfia…ecco la serietà dei ricercatori olocaustici.”…
While Belzec is much shorter than Treblinka, its bibliography still comprises 80 titles, 18 of them in the Polish language. The most important chapter is the third one, where Mattogno analyses the results of the forensic drillings and excavations which were performed on the territory of the former camp in the late 1990s.
People like Germar Rudolf, Ernst Zündel, and Bishop Williamson who do not believe this account and who dare to say so in public are reviled as bigots, anti-Semites, racists, and worse. Their alternate historical scenarios are not termed simply revisionist, but are demeaned as Holocaust denial. Rudolf and Zündel were shipped to Germany where they were tried, convicted, and sentenced to three and five years, respectively.
It is clear that Ahmadinejad is not making statements of Holocaust denial, but rather is expressing doubts and asking questions of the obelisk which has been constructed around it, in particular its effect on the people of Palestine. This leads on to his line on Israel, which has been similarly misrepresented. According to Juan Cole, the Professor of Modern Middle East and South Asian History at the University of Michigan, Ahmadinejad really said, in Farsi, that ‘the regime occupying Jerusalem must vanish from the page of time,’[21] still an anti-Israel statement, which should surprise no-one, but hardly as exciting as ‘wiping Israel off the map’ with its obvious whiff of (nuclear?) obliteration. It clearly has occurred to few commentators that if Iran launched a nuclear attack on Israel, they would also be killing the Palestinian people there, whom they are seeking to defend. There is therefore no logical basis for this belief, at all. Yet this faulty translation has been repeated ad nauseam around the world and used by American neo-Conservatives to justify the escalation of hostile rhetoric towards Iran. When it is borne in mind that Iran has huge oil reserves, confirmed at 135 billion barrels and one of the world’s largest supplies of natural gas,[22] this antagonistic process takes on an eerily familiar air.
Revisionists are likely to find some of Irving’s statements disconcerting. He mentions for example that the diaries of Frau Himmler only refer to the Jews “two or three times.” He comments “Himmler had seemingly not mentioned the Holocaust to her.” He sums up the situation by saying “Himmler had obviously been keeping his (often horrific) secrets to himself.” But here of course no evidence of the “horrific secrets” is offered. Irving also refers to the deportation of Hungarian Jews to camps in Germany (the Hungarian Jews were actually sent to camps in Poland and primarily Auschwitz). He also describes Belzec as an “extermination centre” without any explanation as to such a conclusion. Oddly he also makes a brief comment about the author of The Destruction of the European Jews, “I think highly of [Raul] Hilberg; in fact he shared many of my views.” Irving does not explain which views the two shared.
One historical matter that he does not address extensively is a very interesting one that he presumably could address with great authority: how has the Holocaust myth been modified, transformed, or appropriated over the sixty-plus years of its strife-torn life to date? Who has from time to time assumed stewardship over its perpetuation and enhancement? Who has undertaken to oppose or even deny it, and to what extent? What legal measures have been enacted and employed by defenders of the mythology, and how have these measures changed in severity and thoroughness of enforcement over the decades leading up to the present moment, in which the contest continues to rage with an intensity quite unanticipated forty years ago? The account of the Holocaust itself undoubtedly has today its own informative history, unknown even to many who have mastered the elusive facts of the original events.
“The first time I heard about Holocaust denial, I laughed. […] Fast forward, a little over a decade, and two senior scholars, scholars of the Holocaust, two most prominent historians of the Holocaust approached me and said; ‘Deborah, let’s have coffee. We have a research idea that we think is perfect for you.’ Intrigued, and flattered that they came to me with an idea and thought me worthy of it, I asked, ‘What is it?’ And they said: ‘Holocaust denial,’ and for the second time, I laughed. ‘Holocaust denial? The flat-earth folks? The Elvis-is-alive people? I should study them?’”
Meanwhile, dispute about the number of Sobibor victims goes on. A footnote[59] in the 2012 Bem and Mazurek report states that “the Germans committed 300,000 murders here”—a figure that significantly exceeds that of both the USHMM and Yad Vashem. On the other hand, skeptical revisionists such as Graf, Mattogno, and Kues say this: “It must be stressed that this is only a rough estimate, but we find it probable that the number of Sobibor victims is in the vicinity of 10,000 dead” (2010: 169). A figure of 10,000 dead, while still tragic, would reduce Sobibor to near insignificance in the Holocaust story, and to virtual irrelevance in the larger tragedy of World War II. Suffice it to say that the present evidence is decidedly in favor of the revisionists.
In response to David Cole’s questions, Cole’s tour guide repeatedly states that the gas chamber at Auschwitz was in its original state. Unable to answer all of Cole’s questions, Cole’s tour guide went to get a woman who was introduced as the supervisor of tour guides for the Auschwitz State Museum. In response to Cole’s question, the Auschwitz tour supervisor states that the holes in the ceiling of the alleged gas chamber at Auschwitz were restored after the war. Thus, contrary to statements made by Cole’s tour guide, the Auschwitz tour supervisor acknowledges that the alleged homicidal gas chamber at Auschwitz was not in its original state.
Interestingly, half a century after the trial for which it was built, the enclosure itself has acquired a certain celebrity of its own. At the initiative of entertainment mogul Milton Maltz, namesake of Cleveland’s Maltz Museum of Jewish Heritage, “the” enclosure (it isn’t clear whether it really was the enclosure, or a replica) toured New York and Cleveland. Its “debut” at least outside Israel, was on February 17, 2016 at Maltz’s Cleveland establishment. This article promises that the exhibit, which presents Eichmann’s abduction and his sentencing and execution, will travel to various other cities in the US. As of October 19, 2018, the exhibit is in South Florida, and a person at the host museum in Dania, Florida informed me over the telephone that the enclosure on display is in fact a “replica” of the original—perhaps understandable in view of how heavy it would be if in fact all “bullet-proof” glass and tellingly in keeping with the replica nature of the gas chambers in “Nazi death camps” and other artifacts of the savage treatment purportedly visited upon Europe’s Jews by the National-Socialist Germans who lost World War II.
“If Germany was also a victim of a ‘downfall,’ and if the Holocaust was no different from a mélange of other tragedies, Germany’s moral obligation to welcome all who seek refuge within its borders is lessened.” (p. 243)
On the genesis of the allegation of homicidal gas chambers, Kranz writes:
This analysis includes essential exploration of cultural antecedents—notable accounts and mass enfabulations that undeniably conditioned receptions and interpretations to which reports of what now is encompassed under the rubric of "The Holocaust" were subjected. These, in turn, reach back well past the World War that preceded the Second, and are replete with recognizable Numbers (well beyond the Six Million of universal familiarity) that expose the machinations of myth-makers genning headlines and report titles calculated to engage the fears and prejudices of publics long conditioned by the rigors of prolonged war to the most damning interpretations imaginable.
There are a number of episodes during the war revealing of Churchill's character that deserve to be mentioned. A relatively minor incident was the British attack on the French fleet, at Mers-el-Kebir (Oran), off the coast of Algeria. After the fall of France, Churchill demanded that the French surrender their fleet to Britain. The French declined, promising that they would scuttle the ships before allowing them to fall into German hands. Against the advice of his naval officers, Churchill ordered British ships off the Algerian coast to open fire. About 1500 French sailors were killed. This was obviously a war crime, by anyone's definition: an unprovoked attack on the forces of an ally without a declaration of war. At Nuremberg, German officers were sentenced to prison for less. Realizing this, Churchill lied about Mers-el-Kebir in his history, and suppressed evidence concerning it in the official British histories of the war.[62] With the attack on the French fleet, Churchill confirmed his position as the prime subverter through two world wars of the system of rules of warfare that had evolved in the West over centuries.
In the autumn of 1943 the invaders built a special incinerator on the Shashkovka site, about a quarter of a mile from Maly Trostinets Concentration Camp. Kovalenko and Kareta, who worked at the concentration camp, stated that the bodies of the people shot or murdered in 'murder vans' were burned in this incinerator. Three to five trucks packed with people arrived there every day.
Any chapter, quite by itself, will suffice for the honest reader of common sense to Dissect the Holocaust most conclusively.
These hooks were not used to hang people in gas chambers. They were just hooks for clothing, of course.
So even Pressac concedes that this letter does not prove the existence of a homicidal gas chamber in Krematorium II. Carlo Mattogno explains the letter in the context of the epidemic of typhus which was the main cause of the frighteningly high mortality in Auschwitz. Quoting numerous documents, Mattogno argues that the SS planned to install a provisional Zyklon B delousing chamber in the Leichenkeller 1 of Krematorium II.[36] This project never materialized.
Whatever Morel’s beliefs, the Zgoda camp became legendary as one of many counter-concentration camps for Germans in which, even if there were no gas chambers, Polish-German men, women and children died in great numbers in the most horrendous conditions imaginable, even to those who imagined horrendous conditions in the camps established by the German government. Morel and his murderous Jewish cadre of camp operatives were immortally documented in John Sack’s An Eye for an Eye[2], an account of revenge taken by Jews in Europe after World War II against people they felt were “German enough” to merit retribution for the atrocities they felt had been committed against Jews under the National Socialist policies that ruled Germany from 1933 to 1945.
Other denizens of the DP camps were “bounce-back” refugees, who had been deported either eastward by the Soviets as just described, or westward by the Germans as their territory shrank and they began bringing enslaved foreign Jews back in to the Reich from which they had only recently deported so many “indigenous” Jews. These miserable souls returned to their towns and villages in Poland and elsewhere in eastern Europe to find their land and/or houses taken over by gentiles whom neither occupying power had deported or drafted into its armies. As has occurred elsewhere, including in the United States following the incarceration of most of its Japanese population, the new occupants were loath to surrender “their” properties, and encouraged the old claimants to continue on their way. Unlike in the United States, in eastern Europe the new incumbents often resorted to violence, including mass murder, to enforce their misbegotten claims. The great bulk of victims surviving this aftershock Holocaust headed west, to occupied Germany, to wait on the soil of the hated enemy until such time as they could arrange admission to more inviting locales such as the United States or Israel, whose emergence in 1948 signaled the end of the DP camps, at least insofar as Jews were concerned.
In early 2016, following news of the passing of his old friend, Bradley Smith, Crowell wrote what would be his last article – a memorial for Smith – “Bradley Smith: In Memoriam.” Here, once again, Crowell used the phrase “In Memoriam” just as he had dedicated his magnum opus many years prior. As used in Sherlock the Latin phrase seemed like a seal on the tomb of the Holocaust story itself, forever relegating it to memory. The meaning of these words shifted however when applied to Bradley Smith. The words had transformed into a requiem for a dear departed friend. It seems fitting that they be used once again to remember my friend Samuel Crowell. You will be missed.
In November 2000 a relatively modest monument consisting of two black granite blocks was dedicated on the grounds of the former Sachsenhausen concentration camp by the foreign ministers of Russia and Germany, Igor Ivanov and Joschka Fischer. One of the stones bears a bronze plaque with the following inscription in Russian and German:
Our national newspaper, The Australian, provided a more extensive and even-handed coverage of the High Court decision. On 16 August it published a front page news story, which included the comment that Australia’s hunt for alleged Nazi war criminals since 1987 has cost ‘tens of millions of dollars’. Efraim Zuroff was reported as saying that it was ‘a terrible day for survivors of the Holocaust’. The Australian also published on 16 August a human interest report of the reactions of Zentai and his son, a comment by its Legal Affairs Editor, Chris Merritt, about the ‘dreadful decision’ and a full page news story by Paige Taylor and Nicolas Perpitch under the heading ‘War crime case is halted’.
Just because some of the “eyewitnesses” do concur on some points, it does not follow that their claims are therefore true. A series of false testimonies can converge on a falsehood. Let it suffice to say that even false testimony can be “corroborated” by other false testimony; a series of false and lying testimonies can “corroborate” and “vindicate” each other, for even historical lies can develop a certain consistency.[116] Browning fails to take this into consideration. For example, consider the false story of the phony “homicidal steam chambers” at Treblinka, or the bogus claim that the Germans manufactured soap from the bodies of dead Jewish corpses.[117] Both lies have a chain of “evidence” with a certain logical coherency to “corroborate” them.
Therefore the fact that the correspondent does not state that the Jews evacuated from the ghetto at the end of December were murdered is all the more extraordinary. While they are spoken of as “victims”, their fate is portrayed as the same as that supposedly suffered by the Reich Jews (“they too had departed no one knows whither”) – that is, deportation to an unknown destination. While one may, by help of the usual Holocaust exegesis, detect here an implication that evacuation from the ghetto equalled death, the most important issue remains: How could the correspondent know so much about the history of the ghetto up to at least spring 1942, but then know nothing whatsoever about the Rumbula massacre nearly a year after the alleged event?
Accordingly, a German translation of this book, under the title Nach dem Holocaust (After the Holocaust) is available today on the German Amazon Website, unlike works by Wilhelm Stäglich such as Der Auschwitz Mythos (The Auschwitz Myth), which remains banned under Germany’s Holocaust denial laws[1]. But Peter Novick (the author quoted above) is not—otherwise—any sort of “Holocaust denier.” His book, though incisive about the misuses to which Holocaust history has been put, and the dubious causes it is used today to promote, is replete with affirmations of the Six Million meme, including gas chambers, exterminative intent, and the rest of the program with which every reader of these words has undoubtedly been imbued since early childhood.
The fabricators were well aware that most observers would be unable to interpret the photograph and needed to be enlighted by means of a caption. For Saul Friedländer, who was looking for photographic material about Belzec, this posed of course a problem, as the caption unmistakably reads “Mogilev Gassing Experiment” (Fig. 7). Undoubtedly for this reason, he covered the upper right part of the photograph with a picture of the alleged Auschwitz gas chamber, thus creating a classic photomontage. When Der Spiegel published the forged photograph of Mogilev (Fig. 4), it resorted to yet another forgery, manipulating the picture in order to present it as an “SS gassing van”. The forgers simply cut off the right half of the picture, and the still-visible part of the inserted caption was retouched and transformed into the grey wall of a house, making the upper part of the car disappear as well.
Manne concluded, alas without prescience, that, while there was a strong possibility that Demjanjuk had served as an SS guard at Sobibor, ‘since the death of Danilchenko [a man who had allegedly testified to the KGB that Demjanjuk was at both Trawniki and Sobibor] and in the absence of other evidence, it is highly unlikely that any civilised court would find him guilty of such a charge.’
Former inmate and Catholic bishop Johannes Neuhäusler claimed, in 1960, that no gas chamber had ever been put into use at the camp.[8] Two months later, orthodox German historian Martin Broszat issued a letter confirming that “Neither in Dachau nor in Bergen-Belsen nor in Buchenwald were Jews or other prisoners gassed.”[9]
Since the experts give us so few details, we have to assume that any Jew, in or from a German-occupied country, that died during the Nazi era, for any reason, counts as a “Holocaust victim.” We therefore have over 1 million victims before we even count a single Nazi murder. Any fair accounting of Jewish mortality would subtract the 1 million or so natural deaths from the putative total. But this rarely happens.
It is unfortunate for Srebrnik that in 1995 Jerzy Halbersztadt, at that time director of the Polish Program of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, DC, published an essay based on evidence found in Polish archives which conclusively proves the vehicle "identified" by Srebrnik was not a gas van at all but an innocuous moving truck. Even the Polish prosecutor accepted this assessment.[18] I quote in detail from Halbersztadt's essay in my article on Lanzmann's witness Bronislaw Falborski, who has much more to say about these gas vans than Srebrnik.
Se si tratta di «Ebrei assassinati dai nazisti e dai loro complici», premesso che non esiste documentariamente alcun nome di presunti gasati (in quanto non esiste alcuna prova documentaria di “camere a gas” e “gasazioni”), né esistono liste nominative di Ebrei fucilati stilate dagli Einsatzgruppen a da unità della Polizia, restano soltanto gli elenchi degli Ebrei uccisi per rappresaglia, per ordine di tribunali SS, in tentativi di fuga ecc., categoria, dal punto di vista numerico, estremamente esigua.
The lesson has been learned well. But now it is going to have to be unlearned, reviewed, and corrected. We are at the dawn of the year 2015. Let’s draw up the death certificate of the historical lie of the magical Nazi gas chambers. In a return to respect for accuracy in history, let’s promise ourselves that this gigantic imposture will be “the very last”. Until the next one, of course. For – let’s take care not to forget it – Céline, who, as early as 1950, denounced “the magical gas chamber” and stated: “It was everything, the gas chamber. It allowed EVERYTHING!”, added nevertheless: “They’ll have to find something else, oh! my mind’s at rest”. In 1932, in Journey to the End of the Night, he warned: “The frenzy of lying and believing is catching like the itch”. Frailty of man! Where can he have got this facility, then this ardour to believe in a diabolical weapon that he is not even allowed to see? To aim straight, one must aim low. So then, let’s aim low! Let’s not have recourse to mass psychology, psychoanalysis, sociology or any other science! I wonder whether a simple point of vocabulary (in French with the curious expression “chambre à gaz”, in English with “gas chamber”, in German with “Gaskammer” and in other languages as well) would explain the ease and appetite with which such a story has been swallowed. It so happens that the French term “chambre à gaz” is based on that of “chambre à coucher” (bedroom). To name the instrument that administers death, a combination of words that implicitly evoke rest and sleep has been chosen. Why, then, rack one’s brains wondering what that instrument looked like and how it worked? A gas chamber, in the minds of the simple, is simple: it must be like a bedroom or any room, but with gas inside. A man is put in it; some time later, the individual is found dead and it only remains to take away the body; as for the gas, it has dissipated. There is no need to undertake a scientific investigation: proof of a gassing is not to be sought in a forensic examination, for testimonies will suffice. After all, hadn’t the Germans already distinguished themselves during the First World War by their use of poison gas?
In a number of books one can find a photograph showing Crematorium II some time in the winter of 1942/43, during its construction phase. The aboveground section of the gassing chamber is visible, as are 4 box-like things on its roof slab, but their location do not quite correspond to the indications given by van Pelt or to the little smudges on air-reconnaissance photographs said to prove their existence.
“It is the well-known French revisionist, the scholar Robert Faurisson, who comes up with the idea of scientifically demonstrating the inexistence of the gas chambers, a subject he had been working on for some time. He chooses as an ‘expert’ the American Fred A. Leuchter, who called himself a chief engineer, although he never graduated in engineering, and who presented himself as a ‘specialist in the design and manufacture’ of gas chambers intended for the implementation of capital punishment in the USA. In February 1988, thanks to a large sum paid by neo-Nazi Ernst Zündel, he was sent to Poland. His fresh bride Carolyn, an industrial designer who incredibly speaks of it as her honeymoon, an interpreter and a cameraman, a friend of Zündel, also participate in the expedition.”
After arriving at Birkenau, the usual procedure followed. Children, sick and the old were loaded onto waiting trucks:
The claim of transports from Theresienstadt to Transnistria requires some elucidation. During 1943 a total of 17,068 Jews were deported from Theresienstadt in 10 transports. Four of them took place in January and consisted of in all some 6,000 passengers. In February a single transport departed carrying 1,001 passengers. During the period March-August no transports took place; only in September were transports resumed again.[87] The first three of the January transports were sent to Auschwitz, as was the single February transport. From the information provided by Danuta Czech in her Kalendarium[88] we can reconstruct the fate of these four transports as per the table below:
This was called the DEGESCH circulatory device made by the manufacturer of Zyklon B.[36] A member of a clothing fumigation crew would put a can of Zyklon B into the holder. A built-in can opener operated from the outside with a crank would open the can. The pellets would drop down a chute into a basket where hot air would be blown through to speed the release of cyanide gas from the pellets. The pesticide would be spread throughout the clothing fumigation chamber, and when finished, the gas would be removed from the chamber and fresh air blown in.
[2] Chamberlain, William Henry, America’s Second Crusade, Chicago: Regnery, 1950, pp. 13-15, 20-22.
These photographs clearly show that Ziereis was hardly able to make the lengthy statements ascribed to him. Most likely the “minutes” were written after his demise by the former Mauthausen inmates Marsalek and/or Pienta. Some of Ziereis’s alleged statements are so outlandish (he claimed that no fewer than 1.5 million people had been gassed at Hartheim Castle!) that he cannot possibly have made them. In all likelihood his account of a meeting of all concentration camp commandants which allegedly took place in Sachsenhausen was added after the event, perhaps thanks to a “hint” from the Soviet operatives in Berlin.
In fact, none of the criteria described in the law and its various sub-divisions appears to apply to historical revisionists or homicidal-gas-chamber negationists. By and large, many people categorized for convenience’s sake as “Holocaust deniers” are in fact Holocaust agnostics. Their antagonists, the “Holocaust True Believers,” have elevated belief in the Holocaust to the level of a devout religious dogma. Within this murky world of skepticism versus faith, the Doubting Thomases of revisionism insistently demand, “Unless I see... I will not believe,” while the true believers rejoin, “Blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.”[12]
Wilhelm Stäglich, a German judge and author of the book Auschwitz: A Judge Looks at the Evidence, wrote in 1984 about the intellectual subservience and guilt inculcated in most Germans after World War II:[48]
The Jewish organizations and people mentioned in this article who have conspired to promote the myth of the so-called Holocaust include:
Yes, even already during the war. That was all certainly talked about. But, as I was saying, it was always just said, ’They are going to a labor camp.’ That they were gassed, and so forth, nobody had thought that. Nobody had thought that. Afterward, after the war, I worked with a Jewish woman whose father was a tailor. Her entire family had been taken away and her father had been forced to make and mend clothes in a concentration camp. But her brothers and her sister and her mother were all gassed. She herself had been hidden and so both she and her father survived. Anyway, she told me all about what went on there, how they were beaten, and how they had to do all that work. That was certainly horrible.” (p. 170)
Danuta Czech’s assertion that 918 Gypsy men and 490 Gypsy women were transferred to Buchenwald is incorrect, since 918 Gypsies reached their destination, i.e., Buchenwald, but not a single Gypsy woman did. In fact, the only documentary source cited by Czech in this context is a letter from the garrison physician of the Waffen-SS at Weimar (SS-Standortarzt der Waffen-SS Weimar) dated 5 August 1944 indicating the subject of “Zigeunertransport v. 3.8.44 von K.L. Auschwitz” (Gypsy transport of 3.8.1944 from KL Auschwitz). It mentions 918 Gypsies; of these, 105 belonged to the 1930-35 age group (9-14 years old), and 2 were over 65 years of age.[58] En passant, it is impossible to understand how these children and old people escaped being “gassed”! Even the Verzeichnis der Neuzugänge ab 1. Juli 1944 (List of new arrivals of 1 July 1944) of Buchenwald Concentration Camp, dated 3 August, mentions only one transport of 918 “Zigeuner vom K.L. Auschwitz” (Gypsies from Auschwitz Concentration Camp).[59] Finally, the report of the Dutch Red Cross confirms the arrival at Buchenwald of one single Gypsy transport on 3 August 1944, assigned registration numbers 74084-74998, corresponding to 915 inmates; once again, this proves that these inmates were Gypsies from the Zigeunerlager or Gypsy camp at Birkenau, and that the Gypsy women were transferred to Ravensbrück.[60] And since only this one transport of 918 Gypsies arrived at Buchenwald, it is obvious that another transport of 490 Gypsies was directed to another camp.
(2) Merely finding all the mass graves again, after one or two years, would have been a major task in itself. The Nazis obviously had no GPS systems or satellites. They would have required an extensive and extremely detailed set of hand-drawn maps and written descriptions. Why do we have no evidence of such things?
But Dissecting the Holocaust is not at all limited to forensics, which are, after all, best suited to proving things that did happen, as opposed to proving that allegations such as disposing of the bodies of millions of genocide victims without a trace have to be false. A term that better encompasses the broad front on which Dissecting proceeds would be “physical,” or even “technical.”
For this reason, Himmler’s alleged extermination order would have to date back to June 1942, contrary to Höss’s statements, which are therefore revealed as unreliable in terms of historical-chronological development, together with the entire edifice of Holocaust historiography subsequently constructed on the basis of Höss’s statements.
In addition to that, it is important to note that the gas chamber claims were just one of several similar claims made during the final years of the war and just as we have Höss’ affidavit or the Soviet Statements as evidence of gassing, we also have other very similar affidavits or documents as evidence of some of these other claims. For example, IMT volume thirty-two, which contains interrogation and other documents entered in evidence for the trial contains a document entitled ‘Charge Number Six of the Polish Government Against Hans Frank’ authored by a Dr Cyprian. The document alleges that:
“It has not yet been conclusively proved that killings by poison gas took place at the Dachau concentration camp.”
(7) Grinding hard material such as bone requires large, power-driven machinery. Do we have any evidence that such machines existed, and were deployed all over Eastern Europe?
In December 1945, Rajchman visited the former site of the “death camp” together with Rachel (Ruchl) Auerbach and other members of an”historical commission”.[36] Why, we may ask, is it that those investigators failed to uncover evidence for the enormous mass graves described by the witnesses?[37] After all, did they not have Mr. Rajchman himself for their guide?
Finally, it is worth recording Andrew Bolt’s own opinion on this aspect of the national debate. “Holocaust denial demeans us, it trivializes us. If we as a society don’t have it in us to laugh at Holocaust deniers and denounce them with our words and not the law, then we really are in a sorry mess.”[122] However, he opposed banning it by law.
Similarly, in Hungary Ibolya David, Hungary’s Justice Minister, rejected a proposal from the Federation of Hungarian Jewish Communities in May 2001 for a law that would make Holocaust denial illegal. “Such a law would be unconstitutional,” the minister stated, basing her decision on “numerous professional opinions” within the Justice Ministry.[5]
When my first essay advertisement, "The Holocaust Story: How Much Is False? The Case for Open Debate," appeared as a full-page ad in the Daily Northwestern, an article responding to it appeared in the Daily written by Peter Hayes, an associate professor of history and German with a special interest in Nazi Germany. Titled "Some Plain Talk about the Holocaust and Revisionism," Hayes's article is a paint-by-the-numbers example of how your typical Holocaust historian reacts when faced with even the simplest text challenging what he wants his students to believe.
In the masonry samples of the underground morgue, we should find approximately similar residues as in the disinfestation chambers, if not even more, provided that the stories told by the witnesses are true.[13]
This textile worker from Vienna had been in the camp since 4 January 1940. Together with Bock and Feuerlein, he appears on the “list of Communists still at Sachsenhausen Concentration Camp”. He was one of the five signers of version HB-3.
Chapter 2 was written by Michael Salter, and it’s about countering Holocaust denial in relation to the Nuremberg trials. Salter first informs us that:
Needless to say, these numbers have nothing to do with reality. All four Birkenau crematoria had 46 muffles in total, although they were never all operable at any one time. These muffles could cremate one corpse per hour, hence all muffles together could theoretically dispose of a maximum of about 1,000 corpses a day, hence a tenth of what Kounio claims.[2] And that is not all. Describing the deportation of the Hungarian Jews in late spring/early summer 1944, Kounio gives even more outrageous numbers:
Revisionist theory isn't wrong about everything, and there's the rub. Revisionism is simply a criticism of published academic writings on the Holocaust story. I take it as a given that revisionist research is wrong about a lot of things. The problem the professors face is that if they point out where revisionists are wrong, the professors are left with what's left over—with what revisionists are right about. This is a conceptual tragedy for your average academic. In each case where the revisionist is right, a bunch of academics are wrong and would have to fess up to being wrong, to having been wrong for a long time—and to having been stonewalling about being wrong. It would then become clear that while the good guys are right most of the time with what they publish on the story, the bad guys are right some of the time.
If the path from Lager II to the gas chambers was 150 meters long, and the “barber shop” was halfway through the “tube,” then the “barber shop” was 37.5 meters from the gas chambers, not 6.1 meters from the gas chambers. The “barber shop” was not, as Blatt says, just steps away from the gas chambers.
“This had all happened half a year before my arrest. But [when I was finally arrested,] my father was already there. While he was being interrogated [at Gestapo headquarters] by Bόttner and two other officers, he said to them, ’I don’t know why you want to interrogate me.  I know that I’ll be sent to Auschwitz and be gassed anyway.’ […] But then they said to him, ’What kind of atrocity story is this that you are telling us? What makes you think that they are killing people there? How do you get that idea?’ ’Ah, you don’t have to tell me that,’ my father said. ’I know that. I know exactly what’s going on there.’” (p. 95)
1) The Białystok district was an independent administrative district in occupied Poland under the authority of Erich Koch, who was also the Reichskommissar of the Ukraine and Gauleiter of East Prussia (into which the Białystok district was scheduled to be incorporated). It consisted of the regions of Białystok, Grodno and Wołkowysk (part of which are now in Belarus). According to the 1931 Polish census, the Białystok voivodship had 172,043 Jewish inhabitants, 50,170 of them in the Białystok powiat (district) and 35,693 in the Grodno powiat.[38] According to the lengthy Korherr Report, the number of Jews in the Białystok district at the time of its creation amounted to some 160,000. Orthodox Holocaust historian Sara Bender sets an even lower estimate at 150,000.[39] According to Yitzhak Arad, 31,000 Jews were shot in the Białystok district by the Einsatzgruppen during the period July to September 1941, yet at the beginning of autumn 1942 there were still “about 210,000” Jews left in the district,[40] implying that the Jewish population in the district had exceeded 241,000 at the time of the German occupation, which would mean a population increase of at least 68,957 or some 40% for the years 1931 to 1941 – no doubt a considerable exaggeration.[41]
It is well established that Jews played a decisive role in the establishment and functioning of Soviet Communism.[54] Yet, Soviet promotion of the Holocaust ideology cannot be totally explained by this fact alone. Hitler realized that as long as the tyrannical dictator Joseph Stalin was in control of the Soviet Union, its foreign policy would be dictated by Soviet Communist interests independently of specifically Jewish interests. In a speech of January 1941, the German dictator stated: “Though we have very favorable political and economic agreements with Russia, I prefer to rely on the powerful means at my disposal…As long as Stalin lives, there is probably no danger; he is intelligent and careful. But should he cease to be there, the Jews, who at present occupy only second- and third-rank positions might move up again into the first-rank.”[55]
As with other witnesses, Stroumsa never actually saw any extermination of prisoners. On his first day at Birkenau, after a first questioning from an officer regarding his age, skills etc., he was sent to another room for a medical examination. There he found a doctor who was a friend of his from Thessaloniki. The doctor told him:
He adds that, at the time, there were "two gassing experiments, one at Mogilev and one at Minsk." (p. 65) These presumed experiments are said to have been performed in compliance with the order to find more humane methods of execution than shooting, issued by Himmler to Nebe during his visit to Minsk in August 1941. But this anecdote is based solely on post-war testimonies, beginning with that of Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski, who had been Höherer SS-und Polizeiführer in Russia. Similarly, even the presumed gassing experiments – using pipes connected to motor vehicles – are attested to solely by more or less unreliable witnesses, as demonstrated in my studies "Il campo of Chelmno tra storia and propaganda" (Effepi, Genoa, 2009), the American English translation edition of which is now in preparation under the title Chelmno: Myth and Reality, and "Schiffbruch. Vom Untergang der Holocaust-Orthodoxie" (Castle-Hill Publishers).
A drawing of a prisoner showing Dr. Wirths, garrison physician at Auschwitz between September 1942 and early 1945, as a knight in shining uniform battling against lice infestation and thus typhus
Since Goudsmit spoke fluent German and no documentation concerning German gas chambers has ever been found, Goudsmit is certainly lying about seeing records that his parents were put to death in a German gas chamber. Yet Goudsmit hypocritically questioned the morality of the German scientists who worked on the atomic bomb. In his last letter to Heisenberg in June 1949, Goudsmit wrote he was ending their discussions because “I am afraid that we might lose our tempers.”[20]
Just as the most serious evidence against Zentai is witness statements from communist-run courts in Hungary in 1947 and 1948, so the most important argument in his favour is that such statements may be tainted and thus unable to be fairly relied upon. Vamos touched briefly on this in his article: ‘The witness testimonies relating to the case should be treated with care. Evaluating statements made sixty years ago to the police, the Department of Military Politics and the People’s Court is complex – not least because most witnesses are now dead. Also there were unusual circumstances in the Hungary of the late 1940’s, where the communist-dominated government placed considerable store on “social justice” – and established special procedures in which emotions played a significant part. Furthermore, the interrogators, investigators and prosecutors were largely under communist control. They were frequently manipulated for party-political purposes.’[63] Concerning certain testimony by Nagy, Vamos notes that this witness ‘was already imprisoned and awaiting trial. Subsequently, Nagy stated that he had given his testimony in accordance with the interrogator’s wishes, because he wanted to get away and had been promised contact with his family.’[64]
The four B&D chambers are designated as follows:
Dr. Eduard Wirths, Chief SS doctor (SS-Standortarzt) at the Auschwitz concentration camp from September 1942 to January 1945. Wirths is third from right in front row
Other historians have acknowledged that no document of a plan by Germany to exterminate European Jewry has ever been found. In his well-known book on the Holocaust, French-Jewish historian Leon Poliakov stated that “…the campaign to exterminate the Jews, as regards its conception as well as many other essential aspects, remains shrouded in darkness.” Poliakov adds that no documents of a plan for exterminating the Jews have ever been found because “perhaps none ever existed.”[19]
The bottom line is that Majdanek has sunk to irrelevance in the larger Holocaust story. Even if we accept that 60,000 Jews died there, they represent a mere 1% of the alleged total. Consequently we hear very little about the camp any more, from our traditional historians.
Camp 2 was known as the "Häftlinge," or general prisoner, compound and upon the day of liberation was the largest of all the camp compounds. All atrocity reports concerning conditions in Belsen are descriptions of this section of the camp, which is where tens of thousands of seriously ill inmates were dumped during the closing months of the war. Prior to February 1944, prisoners in this camp were required to wear the striped concentration camp uniform, and were treated rather harshly, in accordance with provisions established by the concentration camp administrative offices.
The first transports of Soviet prisoners arrived at Auschwitz on 7 October 1941. The sending of these transports was ordered in conformity with the “Provisions for the Handling of Soviet POWs in all POW camps” (Anordnungen für die Behandlung sowjetischer Kriegsgefangenen in allen Kriegsgefangenenlagern) issued on 8 September 1941 by the High Command of the Armed Forces (Oberkommando der Wehrmacht). These provisions prescribed among other things, the location in the POW camps of Russian soldiers and civilians and to sort them into the following three groups:
But how could an orchestrated program for the murder of millions be carried out without orders, without plans, without documents, without even private comments? Was there not only a grand conspiracy to exterminate the Jews of Europe, but also an even grander conspiracy to cover up the crime? Or, like all grand conspiracies, is the myth of the Holocaust built on delusions, revenge, propaganda, and even lies?
Rudolf also took samples from the alleged homicidal gas chambers and the delousing facilities at Auschwitz and Birkenau. Similar to Leuchter’s samples, the alleged homicidal gas chambers exhibit only insignificant traces of ferrocyanide residue on the same order of magnitude as found in any other building. The samples from the delousing chambers, however, all showed very high ferrocyanide residues. Rudolf determined that, if mass execution gassings with hydrocyanic acid had taken place in the alleged homicidal gas chambers, the rooms in the alleged homicidal gas chambers would exhibit similar ferrocyanide residue as the delousing chambers. Therefore, Rudolf concluded that mass gassings with Zyklon B did not occur in the alleged homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz and Birkenau.[6]
“Leuchter's samples, numbered 25 through 31, extracted from Crematorium I… taken from a facility which was not destroyed and has remained intact since the end of the war, were not exposed to the elements. The same might be said for samples 4, 5 and 6 taken from Crematorium II. Leuchter removed these samples from a pillar, wall and ceiling which, though accessible, were nevertheless well protected against wind, rain and sun.”
Lüftl also stated in his report that mass murder with diesel-exhaust gasses is a sheer impossibility for reasons of time alone. Lüftl stated that this can be easily proven experimentally, even today, with a few brave subjects. Therefore, Lüftl concluded that the stories of gas chambers with diesel engines and gas vans at places such as Treblinka can only be disinformation. In his report, Lüftl states: “The laws of nature apply both to Nazis and anti-fascists. Nobody can be killed with diesel-exhaust gas in the manner described [in the Holocaust literature].”[10]
The already mentioned Yad Vashem Central Database of Shoah Victims, the majority of whose records are based on forms submitted by relatives of the reportedly deceased, contains a relatively large number of entries that are clearly anomalous from an exterminationist point of view, but which fit well with the revisionist transit-camp hypothesis. Needless to say these entries do not have the evidential value of documents and, generally speaking, not even that of ordinary testimonial evidence. Nonetheless I will present them here as they may provide valuable hints as to the destinations of the transports departing from the "extermination camps".
The trouble with the term “Holocaust denial” (a propaganda term if ever there was one) is that it tends to make ignorant persons (the great majority of those upon whom it impinges) imagine that it means a total denial that any such injustice to Jews under Nazi Germany, together with concomitant suffering, ever happened. Thus it becomes easy for propagandists to depict as lunatics or neo-Nazis (or both) those who argue that the currently accepted and officially promoted (and enforced) understanding of the Holocaust needs to be drastically revised, but by no means completely overturned. A more honest term to use of defenders of that present understanding is “Holocaust revisionism,” although a more accurate one still would be something like “reassessment of the nature and extent of German mistreatment of Jews between 1933 and 1945.” Such phraseology sounds boring but has the value of lacking a potentially misleading emotional charge.
Recent pseudo-historical documentaries make much of the Einsatzgruppen and pose astonishing claims about the Einsatzgruppen. An Einsatzgruppen officer named Paul Blobel, for example, was allegedly tasked to uncover and obliterate all remains and evidence of killed Jews. This allegedly entailed unearthing mass graves and immolating their contents, grinding bones into powder and carefully dispersing same throughout forests, re-covering the killing sites and planting trees over them, etc. And again, this over a huge geographical area and within a limited time span and with a small number of vehicles and men.
Some regard the notion of a "Shoah by bullets,” popularized by Desbois and disputed by the majority of the specialists, as "sloganeering.” Other criticisms are methodological in nature and relate to Desbois's alleged tendency to depict himself as a "pioneer" while ignoring all the historians who studied this problem well before he did.
Pogozhev was sent to Auschwitz in October 1941 and then transferred to Birkenau. In November 1942 he managed to escape along with other prisoners and in 1965 he testified at the Auschwitz Trial. Let’s see what he witnessed regarding the exterminations.
Yet even this number was insufficient for our Holocaust propagandists. One recent article notes that, over past decades, “historians have estimated that between 700,000 and 1,000,000 people were killed at Jasenovac.” Serbian publications of the 1990s cited figures as high as 1.2 million.[3] Of these, around 15% are claimed to have been Jews—meaning, potentially 100,000 to 150,000. At that upper estimate, this would put Jasenovac well ahead of Majdanek camp in terms of Jewish death toll, and approaching the status of Sobibor. If, on the other hand, Jews were 15% of, say, 3,000 fatalities, it would mean an utterly inconsequential 400 or 500 deaths. Much is at stake.
Attorneys for Zündel thereafter contacted various prison officials in the United States in the hope of enlisting an expert’s testimony on the operation of homicidal gas chambers. William M. Armontrout, Warden at the Missouri State Penitentiary, replied to their letter of enquiry on January 13, 1988, recommending Fred A. Leuchter as the most qualified expert in this field. In this letter, Armontrout stated,
[11] Kollerstrom, Nicholas, Breaking the Spell: The Holocaust, Myth and Reality, Uckfeld, Great Britain: Castle Hill Publishers, 2015, p. 70.
This was a time when there was much interest in the occult revival in Europe and Britain. The Theosophical Society was founded during the 1870s, with the catchcry of “universal brotherhood,”[24] despite the way its doctrine on “root traces” has been claimed as an inspiration for National Socialist and other völkische movements. The neo-Rosicrucian “Order of the Golden Dawn” in Britain was an influential organization in the occult revival that included W.B. Yeats and his antagonist Aleister Crowley. The Ordo Templi Orientis was founded in Germany by Theodor Reuss, who appeared to have been a German intelligence agent, and reached England, where Aleister Crowley, who appears to have been a British intelligence operative when in the USA,[25] had assumed leadership. There was also Fraternis Saturni, which followed Crowley’s religion of “Thelema” without following Crowley the person, whose doctrine Flowers has also documented.[26] Guido von List’s rune-mysticism in Austria was an important element in the völkische movement, and was allied with Von Liebenfels. There is no evidence that Hitler had any association with any of these orders beyond reading von Liebenfels’s journal Ostara, the focus of which was a dualistic battle between the Satanic Jews and the Godly Aryans.[27]
Dr. Töben had served as one of the keynote speakers at the so-called “Holocaust denial” conference hosted by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in Tehran in 2006.
“Among other things, the fake showers intended for the gas chambers and the wire-mesh columns to pour the contents of the Zyklon cans into the gas chambers were manufactured in the metal workshop. This column was about 3 meters high, with a square section of about 70 cm [wide]. This column was composed of three mesh works inserted one inside the other. The outer screen was made from wire three millimeters thick, fastened to angle irons of 50 by 10 millimeters. Such corner posts were on each corner of the column and were connected at the top and the bottom by an angle iron of the same type. The openings of the wire mesh were 45 millimeters in square. The second screen was made in the same manner, and constructed within the first column [screen] at a distance of 150 millimeters from the first. The openings of this wire mesh were some 25 millimeters in square. In the corners these screens were connected to each other by iron struts. The third part of this column could be moved. It was an empty column of thin galvanized sheet metal with a square cross-section of about 150 mm, which ended in the upper part with a cone and below with a flat square base. At a distance of some 25 millimeters, thin sheet metal corners were welded to the corners of this column supported by sheet-metal brackets. On these corners was mounted a thin mesh with openings of about one millimeter in square. This mesh ended at the bottom of the cone, and from there, extending the meshwork, ran a sheet-metal casing for the entire height up to the top of the cone. The content of a Zyklon can was poured from above in the distributor cone, which allowed for an equal distribution of the Zyklon to all four sides of the column. After the evaporation of the gas, the entire central column was extracted and the evaporated [depleted] silica [carrier] removed.”
Another German who allegedly operated the “gassing engine” at Sobibor, Franz Hödl, offers us another problematic “identification” of the murder weapon. Here is his description of the “gassing engines” that serviced the “gas chambers”: “In the engine room there were indeed two engines. There was a petrol engine, probably from a Russian tank, and a diesel engine. The latter was never used, however.”[23]
[7] https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Mr._Death; Richard J. Green, “Report of Richard J. Green”, introduced in evidence during the libel case before the Queen’s Bench Division, Royal Courts of Justice, The Strand, London, David John Cawdell Irving  v. (1) Penguin Books Limited, (2) Deborah E. Lipstadt, ref. 1996 I. No. 1113, 2001, p. 16; http://www.phdn.org/archives/holocaust-history.org/irving-david/rudolf/affweb.pdf.
“The gas chambers were 30 m long by 7 m wide: 210 sq m. They were 2.4 m high, for a volume of 504 cubic meters.[52] Those same chambers had a ventilation system with both intake and exhaust fans, capable of cycling 8000 cu m through the room each hour. This is commonly referred to as 8000 ÷ 504 = 15.8 ‘air exchanges per hour.’ Note that the Holocaust-denier, Carlo Mattogno, has misrepresented these figures in his essay, Auschwitz: The End of a Legend”.
No one survives having the denier label affixed to his work, even when one accepts, as Irving does, that the Nazis inflicted appalling carnage on European Jews during World War II. The point of this defamatory label is not the preservation of historical truth (as though historians didn't regularly falsify history to advance the interests of favored states), but the destruction of official enemies. As the Italian Marxist Antonio Gramsci put it, intellectuals are "experts in legitimation," not scholarship, and historical fact is quite beside the point. Irving had to be "delegitimized" not for his historiography but because he publicly challenged the Holy Trinity of what has become a Holocaust religion: (1) homicidal gas chambers (2) the six million (3) intention to exterminate. The Holocaust Industry does not allow anyone to get away with that.
Born in the Hague in 1917, interned at Sachsenhausen since 18 February 1941. Bischoff, who had been a lieutenant of the Dutch Army, was sent to Sachsenhausen for his activities on behalf of the resistance movement. During the last phase of the camp, he was technical director of the hospital barracks and block elder (Blockältester) in the hospital barrack R I. In HB-7 he signs as “Freek Bischoff.”
In Shn-4C, Poland was put after France (by manual correction), and Greece was deleted. These changes have been taken into account in the final version Shn-6. Remarkably, one category of prisoners is not mentioned at all in any of the various drafts: Jews. While Soviet Jews enjoyed the status of a separate nationality, foreign Jews were as a rule simply treated as citizens of their respective countries of origin. There had always been Jewish prisoners at Sachsenhausen, even if their percentage among the detainees was never even remotely as high as in the eastern camps. As we have just seen, the ESC did not allude to Jewish prisoners as such at all – which was hardly a coincidence.
On 30 January 2017, however, three days after Trump's statement, the USHMM itself declared that the Holocaust was an exclusively Jewish event:
While Traub did visit Plum Island, and was even there during the opening ceremony in 1956, his activities were very limited. Carroll builds the entire foundation for his theory around Traub, but admits that there is only evidence that Traub visited Plum Island on three occasions. While the USDA did offer Traub the “top scientist” job at Plum Island twice, Traub turned them down, preferring to work at the West German virus facility in Tübingen.
While the Soviet technical report is not a particularly accurate exposition of the functioning of a DEGESCH Kreislauf system adapted for Areginal gas, it retained enough accuracy in detail to show that Sachsenhausen’s supposed “[homicidal] gas chamber of the future”[27] was in fact designed for delousing and installed (in 1944) in the delousing facility.
This is a pretty insightful remark, and it’s worth parsing out: if no reputable historian can make an unorthodox claim about the Holocaust and keep his reputation intact, the assertion that “no reputable historian rejects the Holocaust” is worthless. Of course, professional historians debate just about everything: they debate the Russian Revolution, the American Civil War, the Norman Conquest, and so on; yet, at the end of the day, these debating professors are allowed to keep their differing opinions and their badges of reputability. But the moment a historian ends up on the wrong side of the Holocaust, he finds his reputation tossed in the grinder. No matter how highly regarded he was before that moment, he is permanently banished from the club of reputability. Then, like magic, the Holocausters are right again: “All reputable historians accept the six million figure.” That their little club isn’t shrinking says less about the strength of revisionist arguments than it does about the courage of “reputable” historians.
By the time the trial had been concluded and the judgments were drawn up, it seems the idea of steam chambers at Treblinka or death by electricity at Belzec had been quietly dropped, in favor of the universal gas story. Yet both were held in evidence by the IMT on Polish and Soviet documents, accepted in toto via the principle of ‘judicial notice’ in accordance with article 21 of the Nuremberg Charter, on which many of the most infamous claims were so luridly made. As a final comment on the above analysis, it should be pointed out that it is not possible to prove or disprove the reality of the homicidal gas chambers based solely on the evidence presented before the IMT. As a starting point, each of the camps denoted as extermination centers were later to have trials of their own. Thus there was an Auschwitz trial, a Treblinka trial, a Majdanek trial and so on. What is clear, however is that based on the treatment of this issue by the IMT, there is scope for reasonable intellectual curiosity. Big questions are raised.
On December 11, 2006 I completed a twenty-page study entitled “The Victories of Revisionism.” In it I noted, as examples, twenty victories won by the revisionists on the strictly historical and scientific level, whereas, on the media and judicial levels, their opponents continued to occupy nearly all the terrain. The “Holocaust” sectarians concealed their defeats and went on deceiving the public as they had been doing since 1945. But now, suddenly, the accelerated development of the Internet and the evolution of the world situation, so unfortunate for the State of Israel and the United States of America, have gradually changed the order of things. Revisionism’s victories have started getting talked about. In particular, there is a proliferation of websites, forums and blogs where visitors have been able to learn, first, of the concessions made to the revisionists by “Holocaust” historians, and then of the real capitulations to which some of the latter have been driven.
The presentation of the prosecution’s evidence lasted less than two days and consisted mainly of excerpts from the Einsatzgruppen reports. Ferencz and the four attorneys assisting him called no prosecution witnesses and presented no films during the trial. Thus, the Nuremberg prosecutors set out to prove by documentation alone that the defendants had participated in some of the worst crimes of the National Socialist regime.[4] Since the Einsatzgruppen reports were crucial to the prosecution’s case, we will examine the validity of these reports.
In the wake of the Williamson affair, Bishop Brian Farrell, vice president of the Pontifical Commission for Religious Relations with the Jews, defined the Vatican position on the Holocaust. He said the testimony of the survivors of the Nazi death camps, the remains of the camps themselves and the meticulous documentation kept by the Nazis prove that the Holocaust and the death of 6 million Jews is a historical fact that can be denied “only through ignorance or prejudice.”[22] As we shall soon see, it is Bishop Farrell who speaks through ignorance or prejudice, and thus, may be guilty of violating the Christian command: “Thou shall not bear false witness.”
Immediately after the paragraph bearing his stunning “admission” the judge gives us, in § 13.72, 13.73 and 13.74, the specific reasons why he, like a revisionist, has revised and corrected his “preconception.” What we see here, essentially, is a British judge taking up, in April 2000 in London, the finding pronounced seventeen years before, on April 26, 1983, in Paris, by the  First  Chamber of the  Court of  Appeal (Section A, presided over by François Grégoire): for it, Robert Faurisson, accused by Jewish  organizations essentially of having, in his work, exhibited 1) levity, 2) negligence, 3) willful ignorance and 4) mendacity, to arrive at the conclusion that the Nazi “gas chambers” had never existed, had in fact done a job where there could not be found a trace either of 1) levity, 2) negligence, 3) willful ignorance or 4) mendacity. The judges then stated: “The worth of the findings defended by Mr. Faurisson [on the problem of the gas chambers]is therefore [my emphasis] a matter solely for the appraisal of experts, historians and the public.” In plain language this meant that, in view of the serious nature of Faurisson’s writings on the subject, everyone should have the right to say: “The alleged Hitlerite gas chambers never existed.”
Genocide Denials and the Law is intended to serve as an inquisitor’s manual, providing the definitive legal rationale for jailing modern-day heretics in the dungeons of Europe by first dehumanizing them as ‘deniers.’ […] a manual for inquisitors cloaked as an Oxford law study. It offers a rationale for punishing gas chamber heretics with long imprisonment, as a just and imperative penalty for daring to reject idolatry and collective false witness. This is a disgraceful work. (“On the Contrary” 20 June 2011) (http://revisionistreview.blogspot.com/2011/06/bow-to-their-holocaust-idol-or-go-to.html)
However correct the assessment may be, that perception of the law and “Holocaust” denial stands in contradistinction to Israel’s passage of the world’s first “Holocaust Denial” law in 1986.
The two individuals most responsible for the passage of the July 1990 law were Communist Minister of Transport Jean Claude Gayssot and former Prime Minister Laurent Fabius, who announced his candidacy for the French Presidency in 2007. Fabius, of Jewish heritage, is a millionaire and a Socialist. In 1990 he served as president of France’s National Assembly. The Holocaust denial law was named after its two creators.
When reading these books, the reader will find out, probably to his surprise, that there are actually plenty of rational reasons for opposing certain aspects of certain emanations of the Jewish religion. Of course that does not justify hating people merely because they are Jews, but if anyone wants to understand anti-Semitism which ultimately led to Auschwitz, there is no way around addressing these issues.
U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone said of Justice Robert Jackson, who left the U.S. Supreme Court to lead the IMT tribunal:
But he does not in the least ignore the fascinating subject of the role of slave labor, and its ugly cousin, forced labor, on the Third Reich’s struggle for survival. To the contrary, though the chapter that most focuses on it has a title that includes the word “genocide,” he explores this subject with admirable detachment that permits the illumination of a horrific subject such as would not be possible for a more-interested chronicler. He details how the growing need to exploit labor ultimately clashed with idealism to yield a slightly more “humanitarian” outcome not only for the racially disfavored, but even for prisoners of war, who had only a short time previously been in unsupportable surplus.
"An epidemic of typhoid fever was not the reason for constructing a crematorium in Mogilev. Rather, the crematorium was connected with the relatively unknown SS labor and extermination camp in that city." (p. 62)
[34] Kubica, Helena, “The Crimes of Josef Mengele,” in Gutman, Yisrael and Berenbaum, Michael, Anatomy of the Auschwitz Death Camp, Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press, 1998, pp. 329-330.
Hate Speech is all around us, or so we are told. The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) is one of those organizations that enlighten us about this sad “fact” all the time, and they also list the haters it claims to have found in the US. Among them are the evil Holocaust Deniers, of which that center lists only six individuals or groups,[2] CODOH inevitably among them. There are other groups doing the same, like the ADL and Hillel, for instance. In their attempt to stymie CODOH’s Campus Project, the ADL classified ads submitted by CODOH to student newspapers as “hate submissions.”[3] This categorization had been made popular by Deborah Lipstadt in her 1993 book Denying the Holocaust, which was a major first effort to thwart CODOH’s advertisement campaign.
Arguing the thesis that the Holocaust is unique in history, the redactors advance the proposition that Holocaust denial must be regarded as a crime in a moral sense, “because it is offensive to survivors of the Holocaust and indeed to all Jews and other groups whose members were victims of the Nazis. It is also a crime politically, because it gives aid to the neo-Nazi movements.”[8]
Mayer has no patience with any suggestion that great crimes may have been committed against Germans in the Second World War and its aftermath. Here he joins the vast majority of his contemporaries, professional and lay alike, as well as the Nuremberg Tribunal itself.
In his penultimate chapter “Truth, History and Integrity,” Atzmon devastatingly exposes the myriad ways in which the Israeli juggernaut defends, expands, exploits the myths of the Holocaust to serve its own evil agenda. He even confesses an innocent reaction as a teenager upon first confronting the noise generated by this program: “I wondered why they bragged so much about being resented”—an unassailably logical reaction that invites comparison with the wonderment of another innocent child as he beheld crowds ogling the magnificent raiment of an utterly naked emperor. His analysis of the exploitation of this mendacious narrative is conclusive: yesterday’s “victims” are today’s perpetrators, shielded by the tragic legacy borne for the most part by the parents or grandparents of some of them. And those perpetrators do all they can to make the most of that legacy, even to flying their young to the Polish sites of concentration camps in order to imbue in their minds the sights and sounds of a place where terrible things must have been done to … people those young might suppose they might somehow be descended from.
As has already been mentioned, Rajchman appeared as a witness at the 1987-1988 Jerusalem trial against John Demjanjuk, as well as at the American extradition trial which preceded it. At the time, Demjanjuk stood accused of being “Ivan the Terrible”, a particularly vicious Ukrainian guard who not only had handled the engine providing the lethal carbon monoxide used to kill the victims in the alleged gas chambers in Treblinka, but also on his own initiative carried out a large number of monstrous atrocities against the Jews deported to the camp. In his interview for USHMM, which took place seven months after Demjanjuk had been found guilty and sentenced to death on April 25, 1988, Rajchman related:
Here he has also wasted an excellent opportunity to provide a definitive clarification, with the authority of his eyewitness testimony, of one of the most important and controversial points of the supposed extermination process in Crematoria II and III: the structure of the supposed devices for the introduction of Zyklon B into the gas chamber. Were they simple hollow “square sheet-metal columns” with holes in each of the four surfaces, as claimed by M. Nyiszli?[128] Did they have "a spiral" inside to distribute the Zyklon B uniformly, as stated by F. Müller?[129] Or perhaps they were not of sheet metal, but of metallic mesh, with a square section of 70 cm on each side, as testified by M. Kula (the self-proclaimed builder of the devices)[130], or 35 cm, as affirmed by J. Sackar[131], or 25 cm, as declared by K. Schultze?[132] And if they were of metallic mesh inside, did they have a short "Zyklon B diffusion and recovery cone" which was inserted into the higher part of the device, as asserted by Kula, or a "little basket" which was pulled upwards "with the help of an iron wire", as we are informed by H. Tauber?[133] Or, as S. Chasan informs us, did they consist of perforated round metallic tubing, which did not, however, reach the floor, but had a free empty space at the bottom to recover the Zyklon B granules?[134] Or, as maintained by J. Weiss, "There were three columns for the Ventilators, through which the gas was poured in"?[135] Or, according to J. Erber's description, the devices all had the following characteristic in common: they were iron pipes (Eisenröhre) but, at the same time, "they were surrounded by a steel network" and had a "sheet metal container" (Blechbehälter) inside, which they could pull up and down by means of a cord?[136]
After three days we finally received all the requested material and drove to the front with our supplies. I had the impression that Auschwitz was a huge supply depot for the Eastern Front, with additional buildings used for production and repair. While there we spoke with a large number of prisoners, but no one mentioned anything about gassings or cremations. We departed Auschwitz with the disquieting impression that the prisoners there had a much easier time of it than the front-line soldiers in their daily duty.
Clearly we will have to wait for his Himmler biography to determine what Irving really thinks about the Holocaust. Based on the current volume, it is likely to irritate his detractors as well as the revisionists. Regardless, few interested in World War Two or Holocaust history will neglect to buy it to see what Irving has to say.
In 1972, the two architects Walter Dejaco and Fritz Ertl, who were involved in the planning and construction of the crematoria at Auschwitz-Birkenau, had to stand trial in Vienna for assisting in mass murder. The Auschwitz Museum had sent the Viennese court the construction plans of these buildings. Because the judges found themselves incompetent to evaluate these plans, they tasked the Viennese architect Gerhard Dubin, a certified engineer, to examine these designs to ascertain whether the spaces denoted by the Auschwitz Museum as execution chambers could have been used as such or could have been restructured for such use. Dubin answered “No” to both questions in his expert report. This was one of the reasons why both defendants were ultimately acquitted by the jury. Subsequently, an unknown person removed Dubin’s embarrassing (for the orthodoxy) expert report from the trial records, because today it is not to be found there. This destruction of evidence is not only grossly anti-scientific, it is also a criminal act.[24]
But if there were approximately 14,000 Jews in Daugavpils when the ghetto was established, and if some 10,000 Jews were been killed between the end of June and the end of August, how then could 11,106 Jews from the Daugavpils ghetto be murdered on 9 November 1941[76] and there still be 935 Jews left in the city on 20 November? It is worth noting that one of the major Holocaust historians to have written on the subject of the Holocaust in the Soviet Union, Yitzhak Arad, disregards the figure in the second Stahlecker Report and gives the number of victims as 5,000–6,000.[77] Moreover, as seen above, the first Stahlecker Report gave the number of Jews executed in the Daugavpils district up until 15 October 1941 as 9,256. This figure could include the 9,012 Jews shot in Daugavpils according to the Jäger Report, but not also the 1,150 Jews reportedly executed by Einsatzkommando 1b.
Contrary to Remy’s statement, physical and psychological pressure was frequently used by interrogators in American-run postwar trials. Benjamin Ferencz, a Jewish American war crimes investigator who received a Harvard law degree in 1943, was assigned to investigate the concentration camps at Buchenwald, Mauthausen and Dachau.[3] Ferencz admits that he used threats to obtain confessions. Ferencz relates a story concerning his interrogation of an SS colonel in which he took out his pistol in order to intimidate him:[4]
A self-declared "moderate revisionist" who clearly values the standards of rational investigation, Crowell avoids exaggeration, misrepresentation, and self-righteousness. He shows no reluctance to admit when a conclusion is debatable or when the evidence is open to varying interpretations; and he is able to perceive shortcomings in the views and tactics of those who share a revisionist stance - and even some merit in those who do not. This adds credibility to his analysis, and marks him as a rare breed of intellectual who actually does what he is supposed to do: face up to facts and plausibly explain them. It is truly sad that on such an important topic his open-mindedness is all but unique.
Today, Nov. 16, 2013, the second half of the match is still being played out: 35 Italian citizens have been house-searched – the persons "processed" in this first "Sonderaktion" were 21. These actions of the repression [i.e., police] against 56 Italian citizens were taken merely because they made use of their freedom of expression on an American forum. The following is an article which reveals what is – to us – the real reason why the Jewish lobby decided to push the panic button and try to terrify these citizens into silence. They screwed up the mechanism which served the settlers of the Palestine Ghetto and its subsidiaries to inflate the number of "Jews" allegedly gassed/shot according to the S.H.F. (Standard Holocaust Fabulation). Author is Dr. Mirko Viola, who is still detained on his 299th day in prison! As another treasure, I link to the candid statement of the Jew Colombo Furio…
“A series of public scandals in France together with two widely publicised trials of Canadian neo-Nazi activist Ernst Zündel in 1985 and 1988 convinced ‘Revisionists’ that they now had momentum, a belief bolstered by the conversion of the right-wing popular historian David Irving to the ‘Revisionist’ cause and by a new-found emphasis on physical evidence.” (p. 36)
Rassinier states that the internment camps quickly became self-governing and there was rivalry for control among the “greens” or common criminals” and the “reds” or political prisoners. Lt. Col. Donald B. Robinson, chief historian for the U.S. Military Government in Germany, wrote of a U.S. Army report on Buchenwald:
As historian Weber rightly pointed out in his 1982 essay, we are confronted with the question as to what extent we are dealing with a non-Jewish group and non-Jewish interests in each case. That is to say: do these non-Jewish factions promote the Holocaust ideology solely because Jews pressured them to do so, contrary to their specific group’s best interests? Or, do they promote the Holocaust ideology because it is serving some specific non-Jewish interest that just happens to be congruent with Jewish interests?
The crematoria of Auschwitz or Birkenau had at most, as I discovered in certain documents hidden since 1945, rooms called Leichenhalle or Leichenkeller (depositories, at ground level or semi-interred, for bodies) perfectly typical in their size and, above all, in their ventilation system. In 1982 I also discovered that there had been a forensic examination of the alleged gas chamber of the Struthof camp in Alsace, which I had visited in 1974 and which had looked to me a crude fake; I was later to learn that it was, in part, the product of work carried out after the war by a firm in the town of Saint-Michel-sur-Meurthe. Entrusted to Professor René Fabre, dean of the college of pharmacy in Paris, the examination concluded, as of December 1, 1945, on the absence of any trace whatsoever of hydrocyanic acid either 1) in the exhaust chimney of the alleged gas chamber and the scrapings taken from them (X jars and Y jars) or 2) in the corpses of the alleged Struthof gassing victims found in Strasbourg civil hospital. René Fabre’s report has disappeared from the French military justice archives but we know its findings thanks to a paper in the file signed by three physicians who took part in the study: Drs. Simonin, Piedelièvre and Fourcade (“Whether ‘Holocaust by gas’ or ‘Holocaust by bullets’: no physical or forensic evidence!”). The three were chagrined at the result reached by Fabre but they had still been honest and scrupulous enough to report it.
French Prime Minister Daladier and British Prime Minister Chamberlain were both privately critical of the Polish government. Daladier in private denounced the “criminal folly” of the Poles. Chamberlain admitted to Ambassador Joseph Kennedy that it was the Poles, and not the Germans, who were unreasonable. Kennedy reported to President Roosevelt, “frankly he [Chamberlain] is more worried about getting the Poles to be reasonable than the Germans.” However, neither Daladier nor Chamberlain made any effort to influence the Poles to negotiate with the Germans.[46]
Furthermore, while one may still accept as possible this kind of primitive procedure for Crematoria II and III with their ventilation systems, such a method becomes inapplicable in the other crematoria or in the farmhouse “bunkers” where the pellets were simply dumped into the gas chambers through suitable openings. In the face of the argument put forth by van Pelt that Crematoria II and III were originally not conceived as homicidal installations and later had to be modified accordingly whereas Crematoria IV and V were built for that very purpose, a dilemma becomes readily apparent: If we are to believe the traditionalists, the farmhouse “bunkers” had proved on numerous occasions that it was sufficient to throw pellets into a room full of victims to achieve the desired result, including speedy removal of the corpses to make room for the next load of victims – but then why was it necessary to improve on this procedure by the installation of wire-mesh columns in Crematoria II and III when they were converted into gas chambers? And if it was necessary to find a better method for Crematoria II and III, why was this new way of doing things not applied to those crematoria (IV and V) that were, from the very beginning, conceived as killing machines?
This avoidance of confrontation has become particularly pronounced in recent years. After the publication of a number of works in connection with the Irving/Lipstadt trial, scholarly anti-revisionism has maintained careful silence for a full decade, while over the same period revisionist scholars have produced a steady stream of detailed studies on core aspects of the Holocaust. The main exception to this silence has been a team of bloggers calling themselves “Holocaust Controversies.” The first of the two works reviewed here is their first publication in non-blog format. Published in December 2011, it is a lengthy attack on three revisionist books,[2] namely the monographs on Treblinka, Belzec, and Sobibor written by Carlo Mattogno, Jürgen Graf, and Thomas Kues, whose reply to this criticism forms the second work under review.
Kranz does not offer a reason why it would have been a good thing to split the eastward chamber into two smaller ones and then not use one of them, thus reducing the available space. The reasons why he throws out chambers IV through VII, though unstated, are easy to understand:
This message however has been used to launch “pre-emptive” military strikes; strikes which can be launched at any nation deemed an enemy. Salaam Hussein was portrayed as a middle-eastern Hitler who was bent on domination of the region, building weapons of mass destruction (WMD’s), terrorizing his own people and even using poison gas. In the spring of 1991, in the Wiesenthal Center World Report  Response a front page story claimed that Germans were producing Zyklon B in Iraq and even featured a photograph of “Iraq’s German-made gas chamber.” While no one accepts these outrageous claims today, the Simon Wiesenthal Center is above reproach by traditional media sources due to its namesake’s connection with the Holocaust story.
Thus, the State arrogates to itself the authority to dictate compulsion of belief on pain of punishment, presuming to dictate to individuals what they may or may not believe on the basis of pre-approved “politically correct” content. Genocide laws are being used as a deterrent to compel historians to parrot the politically correct interpretation of certain historical events or else suffer dire consequences.
Only four years later (2005) the Sachsenhausen Memorial Site wrote[20]:
The other TESTA secretary to offer evidence that Tesch had known of gassings was Anna Uenzelmann. Unlike Biagini, she stuck to her pretrial statements: at some point in 1942, after returning from Berlin, Dr. Tesch had said something to the effect that he had heard that there were plans to use Zyklon to kill humans, but had not given any details whatsoever.[91] Tesch denied that there was any truth to Uenzelmann’s story, and noted that “Frau Unzelmann is well known in the business as a very confused person”, and suggested she may have become confused during the years since the event and made a mistake.[92]
Nadjari estimates that about 1.4 million victims were processed in this manner, and he is praised by Pavel Polian for the relative accuracy of his estimate, since it is much less than the 4,000,000 that the Auschwitz Museum claimed until 1990.
We will end here with a short note regarding Churchill’s 1 August 1946 statement that the “reality” of the Holocaust “dawned on us gradually after the struggle was over.”[68] Gilbert points out that Churchill used what was found at some German concentration camps at the war’s end as “proof” of the “Holocaust.”[69] A thorough discussion of this is beyond the scope of this short essay, so I refer the reader to the Revisionist studies of the topic.[70]
Defenders of myth will labor in faith to restore the stained likeness of this grand and shallow creature, and they will succeed for a time. But Human Smoke chips at the edifice; it lays out plain and damning evidence in contrapuntal volumes not easily ignored or patched with historians’ gleam and gloss. Dissident voices have, of course, made essentially the same argument for decades. We have the words of Neilson and Charmley, and of David Irving, before his fall. Yet the case has always been fashioned in a manner that befits the historians, and to stir the usual suspicions. Baker’s audience is different, and so is his form. Critics are wise to difference. Thus they are shrill.
[p. 3/7] [2.] I was commissioned by my superior authority, the former Inspectorate of Concentration Camps, to create on the grounds of the former Polish artillery barracks near Auschwitz a quarantine camp for inmates from Poland. After Himmler had visited the camp in [the spring of] 1941, I received the order to expand the camp as a large concentration camp for the east[,] in particular to deploy the inmates in agriculture, which had to be developed as much as possible, thereby turning the entire swamp and flood plain near the River Vistula into arable land. Furthermore, he ordered to make some 8 – 10,000 inmates available for the construction of a new Buna factory of the I.G. Farben. He concomitantly ordered to create a PoW camp for some 100,000 Russian PoWs in the Birkenau area. [He concomitantly ordered the creation of a PoW camp in the Birkenau area for some 100,000 Russian PoWs].
Smith is perhaps best known for having published several essay-length advertisements calling for open debate on the Holocaust in student newspapers published at colleges and universities across the United States. In the 1991-92 school year, CODOH advertisements or statements appeared in 17 student newspapers, several at major universities. During the 1993-1994 academic year, his ad—headlined “A Revisionist Challenge to the US Holocaust Memorial Museum”—appeared in at least 35 college and university campus papers, as well as one major metropolitan daily. In 1999 and 2000, Smith created a new publication, The Revisionist, a 24-page pulp-stock publication that was distributed free on campus.  The January 2000 issue, which featured a story on intellectual freedom and book-burning was itself burned on the campus of St. Cloud University.  By the end of the 2000-01 academic year, his ads had appeared in more than 350 student papers.
Wilhelm Stäglich, Der Auschwitz-Mythos - Legende oder Wiklichkeit? Eine Kritische Bestandsaufnahne (The Auschwitz Myth-Legend or Truth? A Critical Assessment)
2) Since there were always two alleged “gas chambers” of each type available in Birkenau (in Crematorium II and III, or IV and V, or Bunkers I and II), there is no apparent reason why the victims could not have been separated by sex.
While this Kafkaesque scenario may appear shocking to the sensibilities of those who truly value civil liberties and freedom of speech, the fact is this is precisely the sinister direction in which current “Holocaust-denial” laws are heading.
I forged a friendship with Doug Christie, who was of Scottish descent, and his wife Keltie Zubko, of Ukrainian origin. At the Zündel house in Toronto we used to call them, respectively, “the Devil” and “the Angel”. In itself, the atmosphere that reigned in those spacious rooms was an exceptional success at organization, allocation of tasks, keenness in work, enthusiasm and warmth, with inevitable episodes of tension and, at some moments, fear for our safety. Ernst Zündel has no match when it comes to inspiring dedication to the just cause of revisionism, and rarely in my long life have I seen a gathering of disinterested spirits of such high quality. Many names come to mind: I shall not mention any of them for fear of forgetting just one of those men and women who, together, wrote a fine page of the human experience. I shall allow myself one sole exception and mention Barbara Kulaszka, herself a barrister, daughter of a Scottish lady, whose name will go down in history for the monumental work Did Six Million Really Die? / Report of the Evidence in the Canadian “False News” Trial of Ernst Zündel - 1988,[3] published in 1992.
Während und unmittelbar nach dem Ende des Zweiten Weltkriegs wurde eine Reihe von Kriegspropagandafilmen gedreht mit der Unterstützung oder sogar unter der Regie der US-Regierung. In diesen Propagandafilmen gibt es viele Hinweise auf Tausende und sogar Millionen von Opfern der nationalsozialistischen Barbarei – in keinem dieser Filme werden jedoch Juden als die primären Opfer eines Holocaust genannt.
Quisling was tried in Norway after the war before a judicial tribunal of nine members, which included four professional judges and five civilians. Erik Solem, a highly respected judge, served as president of the court responsible for conducting the proceedings. Quisling’s defense attorney raised an objection to Solem’s presiding as judge since Solem had expressed strong opposition to Quisling’s policies during the war. The appellate panel of Norway’s Supreme Court refused to sustain the defense’s challenge, stating that if this objection was applied broadly, there would hardly be anyone in Norway qualified to sit in judgement at the trial.[26]
[Robert Faurisson] has the motivation: exclusive love of the truth; this would seem to be an obsession of his. An academic, Robert Faurisson was never to cease using this scientific surety, a presumed pledge of respectability. He read Maurice Bardèche. He discovered Paul Rassinier. He “dissected” Rimbaud, Lautréamont and Apollinaire. A brilliant and cultured man, he is nonetheless one bent on causing trouble. Through the seventies, Robert Faurisson worked. He outlined his historico-literary method. He went to the Auschwitz archives. His denial was to build itself there. It rests on a real fact: the gas chamber at the Auschwitz I camp is a “reconstitution”, for it served as a storehouse for SS medical supplies and as an air-raid shelter after the gas chambers at Auschwitz II Birkenau were put into service; what he was able to see (and what can still be seen) is a supposed gas chamber. This is undeniable. Be that as it may, for Robert Faurisson it is a put-up job done by the Jews. (Le Négationnisme (1948-2000). Interviews broadcast on the radio network France-Culture, produced by Jean-Marc Turine. Booklet by Valérie Igounet and Jean-Marc Turine with a preface by Simone Veil, Vincennes, Frémeaux et associés, 2001, 48 pages; p. 27-28).
